471 
FXUS62 KRAH 260551
AFDRAH

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Raleigh NC
152 AM EDT Wed Oct 26 2022

.SYNOPSIS...
High pressure over the region will shift offshore tonight. A cold 
front will move through the region Wednesday night, followed by cool 
high pressure extending into the area from the Great Lakes into 
Friday.

&&

.NEAR TERM /THROUGH TONIGHT/...
As of 922 PM Tuesday...

Stratus and eventually some fog are expected again tonight, 
especially in the I-95 corridor. It currently is a battle of high 
cloudiness rolling into central NC and a slow westward progression 
of the low stratus nearing Henderson and Rocky Mount from the east. 

The principle forecast concern for tonight will be the redevelopment 
of stratus and potentially dense fog, which will be favored in the 
east and in similar area as the stratus/fog this morning. The 
stratus was already in place over the NE Coastal Plain into the NE 
Piedmont where the residual cool and moist low-levels continue (dew 
point/temp spread very narrow). This region will also be clear aloft 
until overnight when the high cloudiness spreads in from the west. 
As the upper level clouds spread over the region, less in the way of 
dense fog will likely occur, with more in the way of stratus. 

There is also a chance that fog/low stratus may materialize farther 
west than this past morning as the low level moist advection focuses 
in the west later tonight. This area may also see some breaks and 
thin spots in the overcast high clouds. 

Showers to the west... over eastern TN are expected to dissipate to 
some light areas of sprinkles as they approach the western Piedmont 
by late tonight 

Lows will be a bit milder with mostly upper 40s to mid 50s expected. 

&&

.SHORT TERM /WEDNESDAY THROUGH WEDNESDAY NIGHT/...
As of 300 PM Tuesday...

A compact low will have moved into the TN/OH Valley by 12z Wednesday 
beginning its transition into an open wave as it moves into eastern 
Canada by 12z Thursday. The base of the H5 trough will approach 
central NC between 06 and 18z Wednesday leading to roughly 30-60m 
height falls across the region, focused mainly over the western 
Piedmont, immediately followed by 20-30m height rises from 00z to 
12z Thursday. At the surface, low pressure over the Great Lakes 
region Wednesday morning will follow the mid/upper trough into 
eastern Canada by 12z Thursday, with a trailing cold front pushing 
into central NC Wednesday night into Thursday morning. Immediately 
ahead of the front, increasing moisture advection within the deep 
southwesterly fetch will increase PWAT up to 1.25 to 1.5 inches 
(around 150% normal) which quickly collapses eastward and off the 
coast by 00-06z Thursday. WAA and isentropic lift over a 
north/northeastward advancing warm front should lead to some drizzle 
with maybe some light accumulations early Wednesday morning into the 
early afternoon, collocated with best upper forcing and moisture 
axis overhead with limited precipitation with the cold FROPA itself. 

Warm southerly winds, broken sunshine, and 1000-850mb thickness 
around 1380m should lead to above average temperatures with highs in 
the upper 70s to even near/around 80 across the south and southeast. 
Temperatures across the western and northeast Piedmont should still 
reach into the low/mid 70s even with the chance for some light rain 
in the morning/afternoon. Lows will range from the mid/upper 40s 
(NW) to mid 50s (SE). 

&&

.LONG TERM /THURSDAY THROUGH TUESDAY/...
As of 300 PM Tuesday...

A split level flow regime will be in place over the Mid-Atlantic and 
southeast CONUS Thursday ahead of the next amplifying trough over 
the Four Corners Region. Deterministic and ensemble guidance are in 
fairly good agreement that this feature will become closed off, and 
perhaps briefly cutoff from the northern stream jet, over the 
southern Plains by 12z Friday as mid/upper ridging builds over the 
eastern CONUS through Friday afternoon. Beyond Friday, timing and 
intensity forecasts with this feature become increasing variable 
between model guidance. Looking at the WPC cluster analysis, this 
uncertainty is especially highlighted on Friday and Saturday with a 
clear split in the guidance between EPS (slower progression of the 
closed low) and GEFS/CMCE (quicker eastward progression). 

Unsurprisingly, these uncertainties, and the solutions that unfold, 
translate beyond Saturday into early next week and could affect 
trick-or-treating on Monday night. For now, Have opted to slow the 
evolution of the closed low and bring the bulk of precipitation (30-
40% chance) in Sunday into Monday. Looking at the total multi-model 
ensemble suggests a continued pattern of ridging in the eastern 
CONUS some level of troughing over the western/central CONUS and 
predominantly southwesterly flow across the Mid-Atlantic through 
Tuesday.

Temperatures will largely be dependent on the evolution of the 
pattern described above, but should favor below normal conditions 
for highs and near to above normal lows given the increasing cloud 
cover, and development of CAD conditions this weekend into early 
next week.

&&

.AVIATION /06Z WEDNESDAY THROUGH SUNDAY/...
As of 152 AM Wednesday... 

24-hour TAF period: VLIFR fog and low stratus will again impact the 
eastern TAF sites (RDU/FAY/RWI). Latest observations across the 
region are already reporting VLIFR fog and low stratus. Latest 
guidance continues to indicate a good probability for this fog at 
RDU/FAY/RWI, regardless of the high clouds currently moving in from 
the west. Latest satellite trends would indicate the high clouds to 
become scattered by 08-10Z, supporting a higher probability of fog. 
As a result of this, have started VLIFR fog earlier than the 
previous forecast package and delayed the return to VFR in the 
morning, earliest at FAY (~14Z) and latest at RWI (~17Z), consistent 
with latest high-resolution model trends. At GSO/INT, confidence 
remains low that fog will develop, as guidance is less certain over 
these two terminals. However, MVFR to perhaps brief IFR will impact 
these terminals in the morning, accompanied by some VCSH with an 
approaching front. Cannot rule out some isolated showers at 
RDU/FAY/RWI ahead of the front, along with a brief period of MVFR at 
RDU in the afternoon. A cold front will move through toward the end 
of the period, resulting in south-southwest winds transitioning to a 
northwest wind gusting into the lower 20s kt. VFR is forecast 
tonight.

Outlook: VFR conditions are expected Thursday. A prolonged period of 
moist low-level easterly flow will favor periods of IFR/MVFR 
ceilings Friday into Sunday.

&&

.RAH WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
None.

&&

$$
SYNOPSIS...Kren
NEAR TERM...Badgett/MWS
SHORT TERM...Swiggett
LONG TERM...Swiggett
AVIATION...Kren
