669 
FXUS62 KRAH 261851
AFDRAH

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Raleigh NC
245 PM EDT Wed Oct 26 2022

.SYNOPSIS...
A cold front will move through the region tonight. Cool high 
pressure extending into the region from the Great Lakes on Thursday 
will strengthen as it shifts into the northeast United States into 
the weekend.

&&

.NEAR TERM /TONIGHT/...
As of 245 PM Wednesday...

At 18Z the cold front trailing a potent shortwave lifting through 
the OH valley looks to finally be east of the mountains,
where winds have turned to wrly.  Meanwhile to the east, low 
clouds have lingered all day and held temps solidly in the 60s in 
the Piedmont.  The cold front is forecast to push east this evening 
and scour the abundant low level moisture as strong high pressure 
builds across the Midwest.  

HRRR runs today have been consistent in showing a few isolated 
showers are still possible this afternoon in the coastal 
plain where clouds have scattered and some very marginal and shallow 
instability may exist beneath and otherwise strengthening mid-level 
inversion.  Guidance also hints are some patchy fog ahead of the 
front after sunset but before winds shift to nwrly.  This would be 
favored from Raleigh to the south and east, but confidence is low 
and impacts would be much less than the fog of the past two nights. 
After midnight all areas should be drying out with winds gradually 
turning to n-nerly by Thursday.  Lows in the mid 40s west to mid 50s 
east.

&&

.SHORT TERM /THURSDAY AND THURSDAY NIGHT/...
As of 245 PM Wednesday...

Central NC will be situated between a split flow regime with the 
polar jet situated over the Northeast into the Great Lakes region, 
while the subtropical jet weakly ridges into the lower MS Valley and 
extending southeast into FL. Farther west, a phasing between the two 
jets will be underway as a deep positively tilted trough dives into 
the Four Corners region by Thursday morning. As subtropical riding 
builds into the Southeast, immediately downstream of the amplifying 
trough, a 70-100kt jet streak will move into Lower MS Valley 
extending into the TN/OH Valley and direct upper level moisture into 
southern Mid-Atlantic Thursday night into early Friday morning. At 
the surface, the cold front should be pushed through central NC by 
Thursday morning with much drier air in place (15 degrees lower) as 
strong high pressure will begin to build into the Great Lakes region 
and strengthen through the day, as it migrates eastward over the 
Northeast by Friday morning and nose down through the southern Mid-
Atlantic into the Southeast. 

Skies should be partly cloudy to mostly clear (from SE to NW) during 
the morning hours with fair weather cumulus developing under very 
dry/stable thermodynamic profiles above 850mb during the afternoon 
hours. Cool northerly winds will usher in near normal temperatures 
ranging from mid 60s to low 70s for highs and falling into the 40s 
Thursday night into early Friday morning.


&&

.LONG TERM /FRIDAY THROUGH WEDNESDAY/...
As of 245 PM Wednesday...

Focus shifts to the west as a closed low develops over the southern 
Plains by Friday morning. Ensemble guidance continues to show a 
clear split in solutions between the EPS and the GEFS/CMCE. The 
latter shows a quicker eastward progression by Sunday evening while 
the former favors a slower solution as the closed low briefly 
becomes detached from the northern stream flow. How far this system 
can migrate east by Sunday night before being picked up by the next 
shortwave will have implications on timing/longevity of potential 
precipitation this weekend into early next week. Given the nature of 
the pattern and potential cutoff nature of the southern stream low, 
will opt with the slower Euro and its ensemble members for late this 
weekend into early next week. 

This solution results in a surface low in the vicinity of Arkansas 
Sunday morning that will lift to the northeast and into Great Lakes 
region by Monday morning. Strengthening flow and WAA at 850mb will 
be directed over the western Piedmont Sunday into Monday morning 
with likely a lull Monday afternoon then increasing again as a 
cold/occluded front pushes moisture eastward Monday night into 
Tuesday morning. Unfortunately, this timing will likely coincide 
with trick-or-treating activities, but confidence on this solution 
is medium/low given timing differences with upper level pattern as 
noted above. 

As for temperatures in the extended, high pressure wedging down the 
southern Appalachians will set up a CAD regime and will favor below 
normal highs through Sunday warming up to 5 degrees above normal by 
early next week. Lows should favor above normal conditions through 
early next week (up to 10-15 degrees above normal by Monday). 
&&

.AVIATION /18Z WEDNESDAY THROUGH SATURDAY/...
As of 120 PM Wednesday... 

24-hour TAF period: Aviation conditions have been improving very 
slowly today and remain sub-VFR at GSO/INT/RDU, where IFR and MVFR 
have only very recently developed.  Abundant low-level moisture and 
cold front that is only now starting to emerge east of the 
mountains will keep some low clouds across the Piedmont for a few 
more hours before drier air finally starts to filter into the area. 
Expect VFR everywhere by 00Z, though there may be a brief period of 
lower vsbys invof RDU/FAY/RWI between 00Z and 06Z before the nwrly 
winds and drier air take over.

Winds will then shift to nerly during the day tomorrow, with some 
gusts to 20kt possibly across the east.

Outlook: A prolonged period of moist low-level easterly flow will 
favor periods of IFR/MVFR ceilings Friday into Sunday.

&&

.RAH WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
None.

&&

$$
SYNOPSIS...Kren
NEAR TERM...BLS
SHORT TERM...AS
LONG TERM...AS
AVIATION...BLS
