466 
FXUS62 KRAH 260704
AFDRAH

Area Forecast Discussion National Weather Service Raleigh NC 303 AM 
EDT Wed Oct 26 2022

.SYNOPSIS...
High pressure over the region will shift offshore tonight. A cold 
front will move through the region Wednesday night, followed by cool 
high pressure extending into the area from the Great Lakes into 
Friday.

&&

.NEAR TERM /THROUGH TONIGHT/...
As of 922 PM Tuesday...

Stratus and eventually some fog are expected again tonight, 
especially in the I-95 corridor. It currently is a battle of high 
cloudiness rolling into central NC and a slow westward progression 
of the low stratus nearing Henderson and Rocky Mount from the east. 

The principle forecast concern for tonight will be the redevelopment 
of stratus and potentially dense fog, which will be favored in the 
east and in similar area as the stratus/fog this morning. The 
stratus was already in place over the NE Coastal Plain into the NE 
Piedmont where the residual cool and moist low-levels continue (dew 
point/temp spread very narrow). This region will also be clear aloft 
until overnight when the high cloudiness spreads in from the west. 
As the upper level clouds spread over the region, less in the way of 
dense fog will likely occur, with more in the way of stratus. 

There is also a chance that fog/low stratus may materialize farther 
west than this past morning as the low level moist advection focuses 
in the west later tonight. This area may also see some breaks and 
thin spots in the overcast high clouds. 

Showers to the west... over eastern TN are expected to dissipate to 
some light areas of sprinkles as they approach the western Piedmont 
by late tonight 

Lows will be a bit milder with mostly upper 40s to mid 50s expected. 

&&

.SHORT TERM /WEDNESDAY THROUGH WEDNESDAY NIGHT/...
As of 300 PM Tuesday...

A compact low will have moved into the TN/OH Valley by 12z Wednesday 
beginning its transition into an open wave as it moves into eastern 
Canada by 12z Thursday. The base of the H5 trough will approach 
central NC between 06 and 18z Wednesday leading to roughly 30-60m 
height falls across the region, focused mainly over the western 
Piedmont, immediately followed by 20-30m height rises from 00z to 
12z Thursday. At the surface, low pressure over the Great Lakes 
region Wednesday morning will follow the mid/upper trough into 
eastern Canada by 12z Thursday, with a trailing cold front pushing 
into central NC Wednesday night into Thursday morning. Immediately 
ahead of the front, increasing moisture advection within the deep 
southwesterly fetch will increase PWAT up to 1.25 to 1.5 inches 
(around 150% normal) which quickly collapses eastward and off the 
coast by 00-06z Thursday. WAA and isentropic lift over a 
north/northeastward advancing warm front should lead to some drizzle 
with maybe some light accumulations early Wednesday morning into the 
early afternoon, collocated with best upper forcing and moisture 
axis overhead with limited precipitation with the cold FROPA itself. 

Warm southerly winds, broken sunshine, and 1000-850mb thickness 
around 1380m should lead to above average temperatures with highs in 
the upper 70s to even near/around 80 across the south and southeast. 
Temperatures across the western and northeast Piedmont should still 
reach into the low/mid 70s even with the chance for some light rain 
in the morning/afternoon. Lows will range from the mid/upper 40s 
(NW) to mid 50s (SE). 

&&

.LONG TERM /FRIDAY THROUGH TUESDAY/...
As of 300 AM Wednesday...

The mid/upper level shortwave ridge over the SE US will hang on over 
the region through late Saturday as a southern stream closed low 
briefly cuts off over the Southern Plains and Lower MS Valley.
While central NC is likely to see ample cloudiness Friday and 
Saturday, it should remain mostly dry across the area with 
seasonably cool daytime highs owing to the cloud cover and NELY low-
level associated with the strong ~1035mb surface high extending down 
the Eastern Seaboard. Conversely, the cloud cover will result in 
mild, above-normal overnight low temperatures. 

The upper level ridge will shift offshore early Sunday with moisture 
transport/advection strengthening over the region throughout the day 
and into the night as the closed low opens up and ejects NEWD into 
the Ohio Valley. Model spread remains high WRT the timing of the 
arrival and the eastern extent of the steadier precip into the area. 
With that said, expect to see increasing rain chances area-wide late 
Sunday and into Sunday night.

Furthermore, it's looking increasingly likely that high rain chances 
will linger through Monday night, as additional trailing shortwave 
energy ejecting east through the southern Plains extends the 
duration of southerly upglide and lift over the Carolinas until it's 
passage Tuesday, which would negatively impact Trick-or Treat 
activities across central NC. 

Temperatures will ultimately depend on the onset timing of the 
deeper cloud cover and rain, with the likely development of cold air 
damming conditions over the Carolina Piedmont Sunday and Monday, 
featuring a climatologically sharper NW to SE temperatures gradient. 
In terms of potential rainfall amounts, while uncertainty remains 
high, some beneficial heavy rainfall is possible, especially across 
western NC where 2-day rain totals of 1-1.5" are possible.  

&&

.AVIATION /06Z WEDNESDAY THROUGH SUNDAY/...
As of 152 AM Wednesday... 

24-hour TAF period: VLIFR fog and low stratus will again impact the 
eastern TAF sites (RDU/FAY/RWI). Latest observations across the 
region are already reporting VLIFR fog and low stratus. Latest 
guidance continues to indicate a good probability for this fog at 
RDU/FAY/RWI, regardless of the high clouds currently moving in from 
the west. Latest satellite trends would indicate the high clouds to 
become scattered by 08-10Z, supporting a higher probability of fog. 
As a result of this, have started VLIFR fog earlier than the 
previous forecast package and delayed the return to VFR in the 
morning, earliest at FAY (~14Z) and latest at RWI (~17Z), consistent 
with latest high-resolution model trends. At GSO/INT, confidence 
remains low that fog will develop, as guidance is less certain over 
these two terminals. However, MVFR to perhaps brief IFR will impact 
these terminals in the morning, accompanied by some VCSH with an 
approaching front. Cannot rule out some isolated showers at 
RDU/FAY/RWI ahead of the front, along with a brief period of MVFR at 
RDU in the afternoon. A cold front will move through toward the end 
of the period, resulting in south-southwest winds transitioning to a 
northwest wind gusting into the lower 20s kt. VFR is forecast 
tonight.

Outlook: VFR conditions are expected Thursday. A prolonged period of 
moist low-level easterly flow will favor periods of IFR/MVFR 
ceilings Friday into Sunday.

&&

.RAH WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
None.

&&

$$
SYNOPSIS...Kren
NEAR TERM...Badgett/MWS
SHORT TERM...Swiggett
LONG TERM...CBL
AVIATION...Kren
