312 
FXUS62 KRAH 261034
AFDRAH

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Raleigh NC
633 AM EDT Wed Oct 26 2022

.SYNOPSIS...
A cold front will move through the region tonight. Cool high 
pressure extending into the region from the Great Lakes on Thursday 
will strengthen as it shifts into the northeast United States into 
the weekend.

&&

.NEAR TERM /TODAY AND TONIGHT/...
As of 350 AM Wednesday...

Areas of fog have developed across portions of the central and 
northeast Piedmont, Sandhills, and Coastal Plain, with several 
observations reporting visibilities of a mile or less. Satellite 
imagery indicates high clouds pushing through the Piedmont, which 
should exit the area in the next few hours. As it exits, 
visibilities may further reduce, possibly warranting a dense fog 
advisory. Right now, confidence is not high enough to issue one 
given additional upstream mid-level clouds associated with low-level 
WAA and the upper-trough and cold front, which should lead to 
improving conditions. A dense fog advisory may be issued if 
conditions worsen, but for now an SPS was issued for reduced 
visibilities.

The vigorous upper-trough, currently over the lower Ohio Valley, 
will reach the lower Great Lakes this afternoon and track into 
southeast Canada tonight into early Thu. Ahead of the trough, a 
surface cold front, currently located over the Tennessee Valley and 
lower Ohio Valley, will move east into the area this evening as a 
surface low tracks into Canada. Low-level 850 mb WAA and weak MUCAPE 
will continue to support slight chances of morning to early evening 
isolated/scattered showers. Guidance continues to indicate lots of 
low-level cloud cover, especially across the north, in response to 
the WAA and lingering low-level moisture from the morning 
low/stratus fog. This should favor a north-south temperature 
contrast in highs, with mid/upper 60s in the north, low to middle 
70s in the west/central Piedmont, and upper 70s to near 80 in the 
southern Piedmont, Sandhills, and southern Coastal Plain.

As the front moves through tonight, any widely isolated showers will 
exit the southern Coastal Plain. A 1026mb surface high pressure is 
forecast to settle into the lower Great Lakes to upper Ohio Valley 
by early Thu, resulting in northerly flow and temperatures from the 
middle 40s in the north/northwest to lower 50s in the SE. Drier air 
and stirring behind the front should prevent another night of fog. 

&&

.SHORT TERM /THURSDAY AND THURSDAY NIGHT/...
As of 350 AM Wednesday...

West-southwest flow at mid-levels will exist over the area early 
Thu. A mid-level ridge will settle off the SE US during the 
afternoon and into early Fri. The chilly 1030mb surface high 
pressure over the Great Lakes will strengthen and move into the 
northeast US by early Fri. CAA and low-level thicknesses behind the 
front are forecast to be around 1360m, about 25m lower than Wed. 
Although it will be sunny, lowered highs to account for the cooler 
airmass. Temperatures will be near to slightly below seasonal 
normals in the mid to upper 60s in the north and lower 70s in the 
south. Forecast soundings indicate continued stirring of the surface 
wind Thu night tied to the pressure gradient from the surface high. 
This should temper overnight lows, which would otherwise support 
upper 30s to lower 40s under optimal radiational cooling (1000-925 
mb thicknesses near 642m). Expect lows in the middle 40s to around 
50, except lower 40s in outlying areas.

&&

.LONG TERM /FRIDAY THROUGH TUESDAY/...
As of 300 AM Wednesday...

The mid/upper level shortwave ridge over the SE US will hang on over 
the region through late Saturday as a southern stream closed low 
briefly cuts off over the Southern Plains and Lower MS Valley.
While central NC is likely to see ample cloudiness Friday and 
Saturday, it should remain mostly dry across the area with 
seasonably cool daytime highs owing to the cloud cover and NELY low-
level associated with the strong ~1035mb surface high extending down 
the Eastern Seaboard. Conversely, the cloud cover will result in 
mild, above-normal overnight low temperatures. 

The upper level ridge will shift offshore early Sunday with moisture 
transport/advection strengthening over the region throughout the day 
and into the night as the closed low opens up and ejects NEWD into 
the Ohio Valley. Model spread remains high WRT the timing of the 
arrival and the eastern extent of the steadier precip into the area. 
With that said, expect to see increasing rain chances area-wide late 
Sunday and into Sunday night.

Furthermore, it's looking increasingly likely that high rain chances 
will linger through Monday night, as additional trailing shortwave 
energy ejecting east through the southern Plains extends the 
duration of southerly upglide and lift over the Carolinas until it's 
passage Tuesday, which would negatively impact Trick-or Treat 
activities across central NC. 

Temperatures will ultimately depend on the onset timing of the 
deeper cloud cover and rain, with the likely development of cold air 
damming conditions over the Carolina Piedmont Sunday and Monday, 
featuring a climatologically sharper NW to SE temperatures gradient. 
In terms of potential rainfall amounts, while uncertainty remains 
high, some beneficial heavy rainfall is possible, especially across 
western NC where 2-day rain totals of 1-1.5" are possible.  

&&

.AVIATION /12Z WEDNESDAY THROUGH SUNDAY/...
As of 633 AM Wednesday... 

24-hour TAF period: LIFR fog/stratus at FAY/RWI will lift to MVFR 
then VFR between 14 and 16Z. Latest observations and model trends 
indicate that southerly flow has started to take hold with warm air 
advection developing. This, along with mid-layer clouds moving in, 
should allow the fog/stratus to dissipate and lead to improving 
flight conditions at FAY/RWI. At RDU, VIS/CIG has also started to 
improve, though LIFR persists. These conditions should also improve 
to MVFR then VFR around 15Z. Warm air advection stratus and light 
isolated showers ahead of a cold front pushing in from the west will 
favor MVFR CIGs at GSO/INT/RDU in the morning to late-afternoon 
hours. Cannot rule out some light showers at FAY/RWI but conditions 
here should remain VFR once fog/stratus lifts this morning at these 
terminals. VFR will prevail at all terminals this evening and into 
tomorrow morning. South-southwest winds today will become north-
northwest tonight, at times gusting to 20 kt at GSO/INT/RDU.

Outlook: VFR conditions are expected Thursday. A prolonged period of 
moist low-level easterly flow will favor periods of IFR/MVFR 
ceilings Friday into Sunday.

&&

.RAH WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
None.

&&

$$
SYNOPSIS...Kren
NEAR TERM...Kren
SHORT TERM...Kren
LONG TERM...CBL
AVIATION...Kren
