110 
FXUS63 KDLH 262336
AFDDLH

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Duluth MN
636 PM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

.DISCUSSION...(This evening through Tuesday)
Issued at 230 PM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

Summary: There is a slight chance of light rain showers for 
Thursday in north-central Minnesota, otherwise a fairly quiet and
dry forecast is expected under warming temperatures into early
next week. These temperatures are expected to peak Saturday about
10 to 15 degrees above normal across the Northland. Afternoon 
southerly wind gusts to 25 mph are likely on Friday.

An ongoing stratus shield has kept minimum temperatures lower 
through the mid-day hours today, but this has begun to break up 
over the last few hours per surface observations and satellite 
imagery. Previous northwesterly winds will continue to back 
westerly, but a few erratic gusts are possible as the clearer 
skies mixes down those last northwesterly gusts to 20 mph.

Surface to 700 mb ridging will fully back those westerly winds to
southerly overnight under passing patches of mid-level sky cover.
Further decreases in MinT grids for tonight could be required
later this evening if confidence increases on where the clearest
skies will set up.

The ridge of high pressure shifts eastward fairly quickly by
Thursday late morning. At this time a weak southerly low-level jet
will form over the northern Plains. Isentropic ascent off the nose
of this jet helps to create PoPs in north-central Minnesota by 
sunrise tomorrow. Only light and limited coverage of rain showers
are expected for tomorrow morning, with isolated showers possible
as far north as the northeastern MN Borderlands. Some guidance 
has showers into northwestern WI by Thursday evening, but delayed 
mentionable PoPs in those forecast zones for fairly high 
uncertainty in that scenario at this time. 

Otherwise, tomorrow will feature southerly winds gusting to 20 mph
in the afternoon. Surface dewpoints were lowered away from the
National Blend, keeping with recent forecast trends, to help
create what could be much lower Min RH's than most guidance had
for Thursday afternoon. These lower RH's are most likely in
northwestern WI which could see down to 40% tomorrow. Remember to
check with your local DNR agency on the latest Fire Danger rating
and any possible Burn Restrictions with these wind gusts and lower
Min RH's expected tomorrow afternoon in parts of the Northland.

A weak upper-level trough passes over the region Friday morning,
but is expected to be dry. This will cause elevated southwesterly
winds to gust to 25 mph on Friday from the enhanced surface 
gradient. 

Broad ridging promotes continuous warm air advection into the
north-central US through this weekend. This pattern sets up the
Northland to feature daytime temperatures 10-15 degrees above
normal by Saturday, and only dropping off a few degrees into early
next week. 

Extended progs show some form of a more active pattern and
resultant cool-down into the middle of next week.

&&

.AVIATION...(For the 00Z TAFS through 00Z Thursday evening)
Issued at 624 PM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

VFR ceilings are expected to remain overnight, and winds are
expected to shift to the south tonight. Southerly flow aloft 
may bring slight chances for some sprinkles or light rain showers
tomorrow near BRD. High uncertainty for chances for precipitation
lead to only VCSH at BRD. If showers occur, ceilings and/or 
visibilities could lower briefly to MVFR before lifting afterward.

&&

.MARINE...
Issued at 250 PM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

Incoming high pressure will help to gradually decrease ongoing
west winds at 5 to 15 kts to around 5 kts across all of western
Lake Superior this evening. Winds will back southwesterly for 
Thursday at 5 to 15 knots as a low-level jet builds over the Plains
and high pressure shifts southeastward into the Lower Great Lakes.
These winds will strengthen Thursday night and into Friday with
gusts up to 25 kts. Conditions may become hazardous to small 
craft starting late Thursday night from Grand Portage to Grand 
Marais, Minnesota and in the Outer Apostle Islands where the 
strongest gusts are forecast.

&&

.PRELIMINARY POINT TEMPS/POPS...
DLH  32  52  40  57 /   0  20   0   0 
INL  28  54  40  59 /   0  20  10   0 
BRD  34  53  39  60 /   0  30   0   0 
HYR  29  54  37  58 /   0  10   0   0 
ASX  29  57  40  60 /   0  10   0   0 

&&

.DLH WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
WI...None.
MN...None.
LS...None.
&&

$$

DISCUSSION...NLY
AVIATION...Kossen
MARINE...NLY
