452 
FXUS63 KDLH 261757
AFDDLH

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Duluth MN
1257 PM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

.UPDATE...
Issued at 1248 PM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

Observed wind gusts have fallen below advisory criteria, and 
forecast wind gusts continue to trend towards decreasing gust 
speeds into this evening over the South Shore so the Small Craft 
Advisory will be allowed to expire at 1 PM CDT this afternoon.
Otherwise, no other short-term updates.

&&

.DISCUSSION...(Today through Tuesday)
Issued at 407 AM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

Summary: Relatively quiet conditions are expected today with cool
temperatures. There is a chance of rain showers for portions of 
central and northeast Minnesota Thursday as temperatures begin to 
trend warmer. Temps are expected to be on the warmer side of 
normal through next Wednesday.

A weak surface trough stretched from northern South Dakota to 
near Thunder Bay, ON early this morning. Aloft a mid-level trough 
was over Minnesota and northwest Ontario and progressing eastward.
A few embedded vorticity maxima were noted on RAP analysis as 
well as GOES-East water vapor imagery. Cold air advection in the 
low-levels continued and stratus was widespread across our area 
and upstream into Manitoba and Ontario.

Look for the stratus to hang on today. We suspect the clouds are 
composed of ice crystals, which the models consistently struggle 
to represent. The majority of the guidance has skies clearing 
quickly this morning, but I'm skeptical. Have leaned on cloudier 
solutions for the forecast today. The surface and mid-level 
troughs over the area this morning are generating a little bit of 
lift resulting in periodic sprinkles or flurries. KDLH radar has 
featured a few echoes moving generally toward the east-southeast. 
Think this trend will continue through today, gradually ending 
from west to east this afternoon. The troughs will exit to the 
east by tonight. Highs today will be in the low to upper 40s.

Rising heights in the wake of the mid-level trough are expected 
tonight and low-level winds will back southwesterly ushering in 
warmer air and a bit more moisture. There should be enough 
frontogenesis and isentropic ascent to squeeze out a few rain 
showers from near the Brainerd Lakes into the Arrowhead Thursday 
morning and afternoon. Don't expect much precipitation, maybe a 
few hundredths of an inch. The surge of warmer air at 850 mb and 
lack of strong forcing should prohibit snow from reaching the 
ground. Highs on Thursday will climb into the upper 40s over areas
of the Arrowhead nearest to Lake Superior with low 50s farther 
inland. Low to middle 50s are expected over the remainder of the 
Northland.

The warming trend continues Friday as we transition into a quasi-
zonal flow aloft. While temps are warmer than the median for this
time of year, the "normal" range is pretty broad during the 
transition months in the Spring and Fall. So I'd characterize the 
highs in the low 50s to low 60s as being on the "warm" side of our
normal temperature range. The milder temperatures will continue 
into next week with generally dry and quiet conditions expected. 
An upper-level trough will cross the region Sunday and Monday. 
However, the best forcing for precipitation appears to be well off
to our southeast across the mid-Mississippi Valley into the Ohio 
Valley.

A deeper trough may take shape around the middle of next week and
linger into the second half of next week. Precipitation chances 
return on Wednesday and may persist for several days. Temps start 
out warm enough for rain, but cool next Thursday and beyond, which
may translate into some light snow.

&&

.AVIATION...(For the 18Z TAFS through 18Z Thursday afternoon)
Issued at 1248 PM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

The broken deck of MVFR cigs will continue to deteriorate over the
next few hours at Northland terminals. Cigs should return to VFR
by 23z at all terminals with incoming high pressure. Winds are 
already starting to back westerly this afternoon and decrease in 
speed. Further backing towards southerly will occur by 03z, but 
most terminals will see calm winds overnight into Thur 12z. An 
area of ascent on the nose of weak southerly low level jet will 
help to promote potential area rain showers starting at BRD early 
tomorrow and then spread north and eastward towards the end of 
this TAF period. Confidence is fairly low on any cig/vis 
restrictions at this time so as a result very low PoPs kept VCSH 
mention to BRD at this time.

&&

.MARINE...
Issued at 1250 PM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

Northwest winds of 10 to 15 knots with gusts to 20 knots are 
ongoing over the South Shore nearshore waters of western Lake 
Superior early this afternoon, but backing westerly. Incoming 
high pressure will help to gradually further decrease winds into 
the evening hours. Winds will back southwesterly for Thursday at 
5 to 15 knots. Winds will remain out of the southwest on Friday 
and should strengthen during the day. Conditions may become 
hazardous to small craft, particularly from Grand Portage to Grand
Marais, Minnesota and over the Outer Apostle Islands.

&&

.PRELIMINARY POINT TEMPS/POPS...
DLH  45  32  52  40 /  10   0  20  10 
INL  41  27  54  40 /  10   0  20  20 
BRD  47  34  52  39 /   0   0  30  20 
HYR  46  28  54  36 /  10   0  10  10 
ASX  47  29  57  39 /  10   0  10  10 

&&

.DLH WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
WI...None.
MN...None.
LS...None.
&&

$$

UPDATE...NLY
DISCUSSION...Huyck
AVIATION...NLY
MARINE...NLY
