419 
FXUS63 KDLH 262005
AFDDLH

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Duluth MN
305 PM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

.DISCUSSION...(This evening through Tuesday)
Issued at 230 PM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

Summary: There is a slight chance of light rain showers for 
Thursday in north-central Minnesota, otherwise a fairly quiet and
dry forecast is expected under warming temperatures into early
next week. These temperatures are expected to peak Saturday about
10 to 15 degrees above normal across the Northland. Afternoon 
southerly wind gusts to 25 mph are likely on Friday.

An ongoing stratus shield has kept minimum temperatures lower 
through the mid-day hours today, but this has begun to break up 
over the last few hours per surface observations and satellite 
imagery. Previous northwesterly winds will continue to back 
westerly, but a few erratic gusts are possible as the clearer 
skies mixes down those last northwesterly gusts to 20 mph.

Surface to 700 mb ridging will fully back those westerly winds to
southerly overnight under passing patches of mid-level sky cover.
Further decreases in MinT grids for tonight could be required
later this evening if confidence increases on where the clearest
skies will set up.

The ridge of high pressure shifts eastward fairly quickly by
Thursday late morning. At this time a weak southerly low-level jet
will form over the northern Plains. Isentropic ascent off the nose
of this jet helps to create PoPs in north-central Minnesota by 
sunrise tomorrow. Only light and limited coverage of rain showers
are expected for tomorrow morning, with isolated showers possible
as far north as the northeastern MN Borderlands. Some guidance 
has showers into northwestern WI by Thursday evening, but delayed 
mentionable PoPs in those forecast zones for fairly high 
uncertainty in that scenario at this time. 

Otherwise, tomorrow will feature southerly winds gusting to 20 mph
in the afternoon. Surface dewpoints were lowered away from the
National Blend, keeping with recent forecast trends, to help
create what could be much lower Min RH's than most guidance had
for Thursday afternoon. These lower RH's are most likely in
northwestern WI which could see down to 40% tomorrow. Remember to
check with your local DNR agency on the latest Fire Danger rating
and any possible Burn Restrictions with these wind gusts and lower
Min RH's expected tomorrow afternoon in parts of the Northland.

A weak upper-level trough passes over the region Friday morning,
but is expected to be dry. This will cause elevated southwesterly
winds to gust to 25 mph on Friday from the enhanced surface 
gradient. 

Broad ridging promotes continuous warm air advection into the
north-central US through this weekend. This pattern sets up the
Northland to feature daytime temperatures 10-15 degrees above
normal by Saturday, and only dropping off a few degrees into early
next week. 

Extended progs show some form of a more active pattern and
resultant cool-down into the middle of next week.

&&

.AVIATION...(For the 18Z TAFS through 18Z Thursday afternoon)
Issued at 1248 PM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

The broken deck of MVFR cigs will continue to deteriorate over the
next few hours at Northland terminals. Cigs should return to VFR
by 23z at all terminals with incoming high pressure. Winds are 
already starting to back westerly this afternoon and decrease in 
speed. Further backing towards southerly will occur by 03z, but 
most terminals will see calm winds overnight into Thur 12z. An 
area of ascent on the nose of weak southerly low level jet will 
help to promote potential area rain showers starting at BRD early 
tomorrow and then spread north and eastward towards the end of 
this TAF period. Confidence is fairly low on any cig/vis 
restrictions at this time so as a result very low PoPs kept VCSH 
mention to BRD at this time.

&&

.MARINE...
Issued at 250 PM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

Incoming high pressure will help to gradually decrease ongoing
west winds at 5 to 15 kts to around 5 kts across all of western
Lake Superior this evening. Winds will back southwesterly for 
Thursday at 5 to 15 knots as a low-level jet builds over the Plains
and high pressure shifts southeastward into the Lower Great Lakes.
These winds will strengthen Thursday night and into Friday with
gusts up to 25 kts. Conditions may become hazardous to small 
craft starting late Thursday night from Grand Portage to Grand 
Marais, Minnesota and in the Outer Apostle Islands where the 
strongest gusts are forecast.

&&

.PRELIMINARY POINT TEMPS/POPS...
DLH  32  52  40  57 /   0  20   0   0 
INL  28  54  40  59 /   0  20  10   0 
BRD  34  53  39  60 /   0  30   0   0 
HYR  29  54  37  58 /   0  10   0   0 
ASX  29  57  40  60 /   0  10   0   0 

&&

.DLH WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
WI...None.
MN...None.
LS...None.
&&

$$

DISCUSSION...NLY
AVIATION...NLY
MARINE...NLY
