642 
FXUS63 KDLH 260907
AFDDLH

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Duluth MN
407 AM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

.DISCUSSION...(Today through Tuesday)
Issued at 407 AM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

Summary: Relatively quiet conditions are expected today with cool
temperatures. There is a chance of rain showers for portions of 
central and northeast Minnesota Thursday as temperatures begin to 
trend warmer. Temps are expected to be on the warmer side of 
normal through next Wednesday.

A weak surface trough stretched from northern South Dakota to 
near Thunder Bay, ON early this morning. Aloft a mid-level trough 
was over Minnesota and northwest Ontario and progressing eastward.
A few embedded vorticity maxima were noted on RAP analysis as 
well as GOES-East water vapor imagery. Cold air advection in the 
low-levels continued and stratus was widespread across our area 
and upstream into Manitoba and Ontario.

Look for the stratus to hang on today. We suspect the clouds are 
composed of ice crystals, which the models consistently struggle 
to represent. The majority of the guidance has skies clearing 
quickly this morning, but I'm skeptical. Have leaned on cloudier 
solutions for the forecast today. The surface and mid-level 
troughs over the area this morning are generating a little bit of 
lift resulting in periodic sprinkles or flurries. KDLH radar has 
featured a few echoes moving generally toward the east-southeast. 
Think this trend will continue through today, gradually ending 
from west to east this afternoon. The troughs will exit to the
east by tonight. Highs today will be in the low to upper 40s.

Rising heights in the wake of the mid-level trough are expected 
tonight and low-level winds will back southwesterly ushering in 
warmer air and a bit more moisture. There should be enough 
frontogenesis and isentropic ascent to squeeze out a few rain 
showers from near the Brainerd Lakes into the Arrowhead Thursday 
morning and afternoon. Don't expect much precipitation, maybe a 
few hundredths of an inch. The surge of warmer air at 850 mb and 
lack of strong forcing should prohibit snow from reaching the 
ground. Highs on Thursday will climb into the upper 40s over areas
of the Arrowhead nearest to Lake Superior with low 50s farther 
inland. Low to middle 50s are expected over the remainder of the 
Northland.

The warming trend continues Friday as we transition into a quasi-
zonal flow aloft. While temps are warmer than the median for this 
time of year, the "normal" range is pretty broad during the 
transition months in the Spring and Fall. So I'd characterize the 
highs in the low 50s to low 60s as being on the "warm" side of our
normal temperature range. The milder temperatures will continue 
into next week with generally dry and quiet conditions expected. 
An upper-level trough will cross the region Sunday and Monday. 
However, the best forcing for precipitation appears to be well off
to our southeast across the mid-Mississippi Valley into the Ohio 
Valley.

A deeper trough may take shape around the middle of next week and
linger into the second half of next week. Precipitation chances 
return on Wednesday and may persist for several days. Temps start 
out warm enough for rain, but cool next Thursday and beyond, which
may translate into some light snow.

&&

.AVIATION...(For the 06Z TAFS through 06Z Wednesday night)
Issued at 1233 AM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

A weak trough of low pressure stretched from north-central South 
Dakota near Mobridge to near Thunder Bay, ON early this morning. A
few very light rain or snow showers were noted on radar over 
northeast Minnesota. Cold air advection near the surface should 
allow the boundary layer to stay mixed overnight resulting in some
wind gusts at the terminals of 15 to 20 knots. Otherwise look for
the MVFR/VFR ceilings to linger into the 13Z to 17Z time range. 
The ceilings are a bit tricky this morning as the cloud layer is 
mostly comprised of ice crystals, which forecast models struggle 
to represent. As such, skies may clear earlier than forecast or 
MVFR ceilings persist longer than forecast. Ceiling forecast 
confidence is medium. As high pressure moves toward the Upper 
Midwest from the Northern Plains tonight, look for winds to become
light and variable and back with time.

&&

.MARINE...
Issued at 407 AM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

Seasonally strong northwest winds of 10 to 15 knots with gusts to
20 knots are expected through tonight. Winds will gradually taper
off this evening and overnight as high pressure passes overhead. 
Winds will back southwesterly for Thursday at 5 to 15 knots. Winds
will remain out of the southwest on Friday and should strengthen 
during the day. Conditions may become hazardous to small craft, 
particularly from Grand Portage to Grand Marais, MN and over the 
Outer Apostle Islands.

&&

.PRELIMINARY POINT TEMPS/POPS...
DLH  45  32  52  40 /  10  10  20  10 
INL  41  27  54  40 /  10  10  10  10 
BRD  47  34  52  39 /   0  10  30  10 
HYR  46  28  54  36 /  10   0   0   0 
ASX  47  29  57  39 /  10   0  10  10 

&&

.DLH WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
WI...None.
MN...None.
LS...None.
&&

$$

DISCUSSION...Huyck
AVIATION...Huyck
MARINE...Huyck
