309 
FXUS63 KGLD 261935
AFDGLD

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Goodland KS
135 PM MDT Wed Oct 26 2022

.SHORT TERM...(This evening through Saturday) 
Issued at 130 PM MDT Wed Oct 26 2022

Upper low will move down the western side of the Rockies tonight
through Thursday, eventually reaching southwest Texas by Friday
morning. The track is not the best for precipitation in the local
area, with most of the precipitation confined to the Front Range
area. Nonetheless, will see a few scattered showers develop later
tonight and continue through Thursday evening. Confidence not that
great and most areas are going to get little, if any,
precipitation from this system. The associated surface cold front
will stall out in the Kansas and Colorado border area on Thursday
morning, with some gusty north winds through Thursday afternoon on
the cold side of the front. Cloudiness will keep temperatures on
Thursday in the 50s for highs. Skies clear Thursday night with
lows ranging from the low to mid 20s in northeast Colorado to the
upper 30s in north central Kansas. 

Friday will see shortwave ridging behind the departing system
followed by a weak zonal flow on Saturday. Skies will be mostly 
sunny both days with light winds. High temperatures will be in the
60s and lows in the 20s and 30s. May see elevated fire weather 
conditions return in western areas (northeast Colorado) on 
Saturday as afternoon relative humidity minimums drop to around 
20 percent. 

.LONG TERM...(Saturday through Tuesday)
Issued at 341 AM MDT Wed Oct 26 2022

The long term period maintains dry conditions along with warmer
than average temperatures.

A short wave trough aloft moves from the central Rockies across
the central High Plains on Saturday with an associated weak
surface trough moving across the central High Plains late 
Saturday into early Sunday. Light south winds turn northerly 
across the forecast area with the passage of the surface trough. A
weak short wave ridge moves across the region on Monday with 
westerly flow aloft turning more southwesterly as a trough begins 
to deepen over the western U.S. Surface winds turn back to the 
southwest southwest as a larger lee surface trough deepens and 
extends south along the front range from eastern Montana through 
Wyoming, Colorado and into New Mexico on Monday in response to the
westerly flow aloft over the Rockies. The surface trough 
continues to deepen into a closed surface low over the western 
Dakotas by late Tuesday that lifts out across the northern plains 
Tuesday night.

High temperatures across the forecast area will be in the 60s on
Saturday and Sunday with Lows in the upper 20s to upper 30s.
Temperatures warm slightly with highs in the 60s to lower 70s
Monday through Wednesday and lows in the lower 30s to the lower
40s.

&&

.AVIATION...(For the 18Z TAFS through 18Z Thursday afternoon)
Issued at 1103 AM MDT Wed Oct 26 2022

At KGLD...ASOS continues to be down, and with no data TAF for KGLD
will be NIL. 

At KMCK...mid and high clouds continue to stream across the area
from the west. Radar returns are virga as no precipitation has
been reaching the ground. May eventually see some light showers
tonight or Thursday morning, but will be very scattered in nature.
Otherwise, expecting VFR to continue. 

&&

.GLD WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
KS...NONE.
CO...NONE.
NE...NONE.
&&

$$

SHORT TERM...024
LONG TERM...LOCKHART 
AVIATION...024
