916 
FXUS63 KGLD 260905
AFDGLD

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Goodland KS
305 AM MDT Wed Oct 26 2022

.SHORT TERM...(Today through Saturday Morning) 
Issued at 301 AM MDT Wed Oct 26 2022

RAP 500mb heights shows mainly zonal flow across the plains with 
some subtle shortwaves embedded within the flow. A weak cold 
front is draped across northeast Colorado and into the Nebraska 
panhandle with temperatures in the low to mid 20s behind it. 
There is enough upper level moisture for clouds to develop along 
and behind the front. The potential does exists for some sprinkles
to develop but think the good majority of radar echos are virga 
due to the dryness closer to the surface. Through the day today, 
the weak frontal boundary will slowly move SE allowing the 
potential for virga/sprinkles mainly north of I-70. High 
temperatures for the day are forecasted to be in the upper 50s to
mid 60s. The better signal for cooler temperatures have allowed 
forecasted RH values to rise above 20%, which limits the 
magnitude of the expected fire weather conditions. Now expecting 
widespread elevated fire weather across the entire area as winds 
are still expected to increase from the south with gusts of 35-40
mph throughout the day. The peak for winds looks to be between 
17-21Z. 

Into tonight, the forecast becomes uncharacteristically uncertain
for 24- 36 hours out. Guidance still continues to struggle with 
how quickly a surface low across SE Colorado moves to the south. 
The ECMWF and NAM continue to show the highest amount of moisture 
return and slowly movement of the low which favors the potential 
for light rain to develop. The GFS continues to show the surface 
low moving rapidly to the south and limited moisture return which
would significantly cut down any potential precipitation. The NBM
continues to show 40- 50 pops especially across eastern portions 
of the area, which favors the NAM and ECMWF solutions. The 
consistent dryness of every run of the GFS does concern me, so 
kept with the same thought as the previous few midnight shifts by 
cutting pops 5-10% to account for the dry solution. Nevertheless 
slight chance to chance precipitation does seem reasonable for 
this event. If the precipitation does end up occurring it looks 
like it will be generally light with one locale at max in CWA 
seeing a tenth of inch of precipitation. A few snow showers may 
also occurring across east Colorado overnight and into Thursday 
with little to no accumulation, due to the above 50 degree soil 
temperatures still present. If sufficient wet bulbing can occur I
wouldn't be surprised if some rain/snow mix can sneak into 
western Kansas around sunrise.

Thursday, looks to be cloudy and chilly with the continued chance 
for light rain. The potential for rain will end NW to SE throughout 
the day Thursday. A period gusty to windy conditions looks to 
develop along and west of Kansas Highway 27 Thursday morning with 
forecast sounding showing 25-30 mph sustained winds and gusts up 
to 45 mph which may drop wind chills into the teens for a few 
hours. High temperatures for the day are currently forecasted in 
the upper 40s to mid 50s across the area. 

Split upper level flow then dominates the area Friday and into the 
weekend resulting in sunny, dry conditions and slightly warmer 
temperatures in the upper 50s to low 60s across the area. Light and 
variable winds can also be expected Friday. 


.LONG TERM...(Saturday through Tuesday) 
Issued at 215 PM MDT Tue Oct 25 2022

Tranquil weather expected through the long term period with no
precipitation and temperatures slightly above normal. There will
be an upper trough over the eastern CONUS and a low amplitude 
ridge over the southern plains, placing the central plains mostly 
under weak northwest to zonal flow. About the only concern for the
local area will be the return of elevated fire weather conditions
beginning on Sunday as afternoon relative humidity minimums fall 
below 20 percent. However, wind speeds are currently expected to 
remain well below critical criteria through the period. 

&&

.AVIATION...(For the 06Z TAFS through 06Z Thursday night)
Issued at 1033 PM MDT Tue Oct 25 2022

....Update, the KGLD terminal forecast has been NIL'd until
further notice. There is a communications issue where the ACU and
DCP are not talking to each other. No weather information is being
received from the ASOS, especially the altimeter....

VFR conditions expected through the forecast period at KMCK, with
only a BKN-OVC sky cover from 8kft-10kft.

Winds for KMCK, light/variable. By 14z, southeast around 10kts, 
increasing to around 15-25kts by 17z. By 00z Thursday, southeast
10-15kts. 


&&

.GLD WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
KS...NONE.
CO...NONE.
NE...NONE.
&&

$$

SHORT TERM...Trigg
LONG TERM...024
AVIATION...JN
