418 
FXUS63 KGLD 262252
AFDGLD

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Goodland KS
452 PM MDT Wed Oct 26 2022

.SHORT TERM...(This evening through Saturday night) 
Issued at 130 PM MDT Wed Oct 26 2022

Upper low will move down the western side of the Rockies tonight
through Thursday, eventually reaching southwest Texas by Friday
morning. The track is not the best for precipitation in the local
area, with most of the precipitation confined to the Front Range
area. Nonetheless, will see a few scattered showers develop later
tonight and continue through Thursday evening. Confidence not that
great and most areas are going to get little, if any,
precipitation from this system. The associated surface cold front
will stall out in the Kansas and Colorado border area on Thursday
morning, with some gusty north winds through Thursday afternoon on
the cold side of the front. Cloudiness will keep temperatures on
Thursday in the 50s for highs. Skies clear Thursday night with
lows ranging from the low to mid 20s in northeast Colorado to the
upper 30s in north central Kansas. 

Friday will see shortwave ridging behind the departing system
followed by a weak zonal flow on Saturday. Skies will be mostly 
sunny both days with light winds. High temperatures will be in the
60s and lows in the 20s and 30s. May see elevated fire weather 
conditions return in western areas (northeast Colorado) on 
Saturday as afternoon relative humidity minimums drop to around 
20 percent. 

.LONG TERM...(Sunday through Wednesday) 
Issued at 330 PM MDT Wed Oct 26 2022

...Forecast Confidence Well Below Average...

Long range (GFS/ECMWF) guidance suggests that the synoptic 
pattern over the CONUS will be in a state of flux in this period.. 
transitioning from broad cyclonic flow aloft (early next week) to
a more amplified/active pattern (late next week).. though 
guidance varies considerably with regard to key aspects of the 
aforementioned pattern transition. It appears that the nature/ 
extent of interaction between two distinct branches of the jet 
stream -- [1] the northern stream jet (initially west-east 
oriented at ~50N, invof the US/Canada border) and [2] the southern
stream jet (initially west-east oriented at ~30N, invof the 
US/Mexico border) -- may be of particular importance. At this 
time.. steering the forecast toward climatology appears to be the 
most prudent course of action.

&&

.AVIATION...(For the 00Z TAFS through 00Z Friday evening)
Issued at 452 PM MDT Wed Oct 26 2022

For KGLD...ASOS continues to be down, and with no data TAF for 
KGLD will be NIL. 

For KMCK...VFR conditions with a broken mid cloud deck. From 
about 08z-15z -SHRA is possible. Winds, southeast around 15-25kts 
through about 01z-02z Thursday, then easterly around 5-10kts.

&&

.GLD WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
KS...NONE.
CO...NONE.
NE...NONE.
&&

$$

SHORT TERM...024
LONG TERM...VINCENT
AVIATION...JN
