622 
FXUS63 KGLD 261706
AFDGLD

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Goodland KS
1106 AM MDT Wed Oct 26 2022

.SHORT TERM...(Today through Saturday Morning) 
Issued at 301 AM MDT Wed Oct 26 2022

RAP 500mb heights shows mainly zonal flow across the plains with 
some subtle shortwaves embedded within the flow. A weak cold 
front is draped across northeast Colorado and into the Nebraska 
panhandle with temperatures in the low to mid 20s behind it. 
There is enough upper level moisture for clouds to develop along 
and behind the front. The potential does exists for some sprinkles
to develop but think the good majority of radar echos are virga 
due to the dryness closer to the surface. Through the day today, 
the weak frontal boundary will slowly move SE allowing the 
potential for virga/sprinkles mainly north of I-70. High 
temperatures for the day are forecasted to be in the upper 50s to
mid 60s. The better signal for cooler temperatures have allowed 
forecasted RH values to rise above 20%, which limits the 
magnitude of the expected fire weather conditions. Now expecting 
widespread elevated fire weather across the entire area as winds 
are still expected to increase from the south with gusts of 35-40
mph throughout the day. The peak for winds looks to be between 
17-21Z. 

Into tonight, the forecast becomes uncharacteristically uncertain
for 24- 36 hours out. Guidance still continues to struggle with 
how quickly a surface low across SE Colorado moves to the south. 
The ECMWF and NAM continue to show the highest amount of moisture 
return and slowly movement of the low which favors the potential 
for light rain to develop. The GFS continues to show the surface 
low moving rapidly to the south and limited moisture return which
would significantly cut down any potential precipitation. The NBM
continues to show 40- 50 pops especially across eastern portions 
of the area, which favors the NAM and ECMWF solutions. The 
consistent dryness of every run of the GFS does concern me, so 
kept with the same thought as the previous few midnight shifts by 
cutting pops 5-10% to account for the dry solution. Nevertheless 
slight chance to chance precipitation does seem reasonable for 
this event. If the precipitation does end up occurring it looks 
like it will be generally light with one locale at max in CWA 
seeing a tenth of inch of precipitation. A few snow showers may 
also occurring across east Colorado overnight and into Thursday 
with little to no accumulation, due to the above 50 degree soil 
temperatures still present. If sufficient wet bulbing can occur I
wouldn't be surprised if some rain/snow mix can sneak into 
western Kansas around sunrise.

Thursday, looks to be cloudy and chilly with the continued chance 
for light rain. The potential for rain will end NW to SE throughout 
the day Thursday. A period gusty to windy conditions looks to 
develop along and west of Kansas Highway 27 Thursday morning with 
forecast sounding showing 25-30 mph sustained winds and gusts up 
to 45 mph which may drop wind chills into the teens for a few 
hours. High temperatures for the day are currently forecasted in 
the upper 40s to mid 50s across the area. 

Split upper level flow then dominates the area Friday and into the 
weekend resulting in sunny, dry conditions and slightly warmer 
temperatures in the upper 50s to low 60s across the area. Light and 
variable winds can also be expected Friday. 

.LONG TERM...(Saturday through Tuesday)
Issued at 341 AM MDT Wed Oct 26 2022

The long term period maintains dry conditions along with warmer
than average temperatures.

A short wave trough aloft moves from the central Rockies across
the central High Plains on Saturday with an associated weak
surface trough moving across the central High Plains late 
Saturday into early Sunday. Light south winds turn northerly 
across the forecast area with the passage of the surface trough. A
weak short wave ridge moves across the region on Monday with 
westerly flow aloft turning more southwesterly as a trough begins 
to deepen over the western U.S. Surface winds turn back to the 
southwest southwest as a larger lee surface trough deepens and 
extends south along the front range from eastern Montana through 
Wyoming, Colorado and into New Mexico on Monday in response to the
westerly flow aloft over the Rockies. The surface trough 
continues to deepen into a closed surface low over the western 
Dakotas by late Tuesday that lifts out across the northern plains 
Tuesday night.

High temperatures across the forecast area will be in the 60s on
Saturday and Sunday with Lows in the upper 20s to upper 30s.
Temperatures warm slightly with highs in the 60s to lower 70s
Monday through Wednesday and lows in the lower 30s to the lower
40s.

&&

.AVIATION...(For the 18Z TAFS through 18Z Thursday afternoon)
Issued at 1103 AM MDT Wed Oct 26 2022

At KGLD...ASOS continues to be down, and with no data TAF for KGLD
will be NIL. 

At KMCK...mid and high clouds continue to stream across the area
from the west. Radar returns are virga as no precipitation has
been reaching the ground. May eventually see some light showers
tonight or Thursday morning, but will be very scattered in nature.
Otherwise, expecting VFR to continue. 

&&

.GLD WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
KS...NONE.
CO...NONE.
NE...NONE.
&&

$$

SHORT TERM...Trigg
LONG TERM...LOCKHART
AVIATION...024
