063 
FXUS65 KPUB 261027
AFDPUB

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Pueblo CO
427 AM MDT Wed Oct 26 2022

.SHORT TERM...(Today and tonight)
Issued at 346 AM MDT Wed Oct 26 2022

Key Messages: 

1) A brief shot of snow this morning for the central mountains, then 
a heavier round expected tonight when Winter Weather Advisories 
start up across the higher Sawatch and Mosquito ranges. 

A leading disturbance ahead of a digging upper trough across the 
Pacific Northwest will move across CO this morning.  This will send 
a brief round of snow into the Sawatch and Mosquito ranges this 
morning with a few light snow showers/sprinkles across the Pikes 
Peak region as showers push off the mountains into the adjacent 
plains.  Overrunning ahead of this system has spread a fairly 
extensive mid cloud deck across the southeast plains north of 
highway 50, but dew points are still rather meager with values in 
the 20s.  Temperatures this morning are quite a bit warmer across 
the plains given the clouds and some downsloping west winds south of 
highway 50 into the deepening surface low to the south. Any 
sprinkles that survive as they drift off the mountains into the 
adjacent plains will be spotty and light. 

After this wave passes by to the north, snow showers across the 
central mountains will wane during the afternoon. These areas could 
see up to 3 inches of snow this morning across the higher peaks. 
Temperatures will be pretty mild again today across the lower 
elevations with breezy west winds over the mountains expected to mix 
down into the adjacent lower elevations this afternoon. The far 
southeast plains will see breezy southerly winds and warm 
temperatures this afternoon.  Humidity values stay too high for 
critical fire weather conditions to materialize, though some near 
critical values will be possible across the southern I-25 corridor 
and far eastern plains where humidity values will approach 20 
percent. 

After a lull in precipitation across the central mountains, snow 
will pick up again this evening as the upper low closes off across 
southwest WY/northern UT and drops southeastward into southwest CO 
by Thursday morning.  This will bring a more intense period of upper 
lift across southern CO late tonight as a cold front drops south of 
the Palmer Divide by 12z. Most of the precipitation for the 
southeast plains will hold off until just beyond the short term 
period.  There is still a deficit of low level moisture until the 
front drops in and some northeasterly upslope flow gets going for 
the southeast mountains into Thursday. Have warmed up low 
temperature grids for tonight as the brunt of colder air will hold 
off until later on Thursday morning. It is possible that lows across 
the southern I-25 corridor could stay up in the 40s to 
around 50 overnight. -KT 

.LONG TERM...(Thursday through Tuesday)
Issued at 346 AM MDT Wed Oct 26 2022

Models have trended south with Thursday's storm system, and have
shifted the heaviest QPF south as well. There are still
differences in the deterministic guidance with the GFS being the
driest, and NAM the wettest solution. Beyond the Thursday storm
system, generally quiet weather is forecast to prevail into early
next week.

Thursday...a quick, but strong upper storm system is forecast to
drop south across western Colorado and into south central New
Mexico. This will bring a strong cold front south across the
Plains Thursday morning, with northeasterly upslope flow
developing behind the frontal boundary. The mountain regions will
see periods of light to moderate snow throughout the day Thursday.
Initially, snow will be focused over the Central Mountains, south
along the Continental Divide, then spread south and east across
the Eastern Mountains. A Winter Weather Advisory has been posted
for the Central Mountains, where a quick 2 to 6 inches are
forecast, especially for areas north of Cottonwood Pass. Wind
gusts to near 45 mph may also produce areas of blowing snow to
produce hazardous travel conditions.  

Across the Plains, much will depend on the exact storm track, cold
air advection and how quickly the lower atmosphere moistens up.
Initially, the lower levels will be dry. As colder air and
moisture moves south along the Eastern Mountains and I-25
corridor, precipitation should develop by mid morning. A period of
snow is expected along the Palmer Divide Thursday morning, with an
inch or two of accumulation possible, mainly on grassy and
elevated surfaces. As the frontal boundary shifts south and the
profile moistens, the focus will shift south into the Eastern
Mountains and Raton Mesa region. Given the current storm track,
around 1 to 4 inches are forecast over the southern Sangre de
Cristo range, into the Raton Mesa area. The NAM does have weak
instability over this area, with around 200-400 j/kg of SBCAPE,
which is likely the reason the NAM precipitation is higher than
the other deterministic solutions. If showers can become
convectively enhanced, it could drive snow levels down to under 6
kft and impact I-25 from near Trinidad, south to the New Mexico
border. Elsewhere, snow level will likely linger around 6 kft,
with temperatures mainly in the mid to upper 40s along the lower
Arkansas River Valley near Pueblo. Further east, a few rain
showers may be possible, especially south of Highway 50 through
the afternoon.

Thursday night...the upper low will quickly move into southwest
Texas during the overnight hours. Precipitation will come to an
end from north to south, and hang on the longest over Las Animas
and Baca Counties. All model guidance has precipitation ending a
bit after midnight. Skies will clear behind the departing system,
with temperatures falling in the 20s for most of the Plains. The
exception will be over the far southeast Plains where cloud cover
is forecast to persist through the morning, keeping lows in the
mid 30s. The San Luis Valley will be the cold spot with single
digits by Friday morning.

Friday through Monday...dry conditions are forecast to prevail
across Colorado has upper level high pressure Friday gives way to
zonal flow through the weekend into early next week. Temperatures
will warm nicely, with 50s across the Plains on Friday, warming
into the upper 60s to lower 70s by Monday.

Tuesday into Wednesday...much will depend on the evolution of the
next upper storm system that is likely to impact the region. The
upper trough is forecast to drop south along the West Coast, and
transition flow southwesterly across Colorado. This will likely
lead to increased chances for snow along the Continental Divide,
with the main focus on the San Juan Range. Breezy conditions will
be possible on the Plains, which would help temperatures to warm
through the mid 70s, but also may lead to elevated fire weather
conditions.  Mozley

&&

.AVIATION...(For the 12Z TAFS through 12Z Thursday morning)
Issued at 346 AM MDT Wed Oct 26 2022

Variable VFR cloudiness can be expected today for all three TAF 
sites. Winds will increase from the southeast this afternoon at KCOS 
and KPUB with gusts to around 20 kts possible.  KALS will see breezy 
southwest winds with gusts to around 25 kts in the afternoon. Winds 
will decrease at all three terminals this evening before increasing 
from the north behind a cold front at KCOS and KPUB between 10-12z. 
Cigs will remain VFR though a lowering cloud deck can be expected 
just after the TAF valid period.  North winds on Thursday will be 
gusting to around 30 kts. -KT
-KT

&&

.PUB WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
Winter Weather Advisory from 6 PM this evening to noon MDT 
Thursday for COZ058-060.

&&

$$

SHORT TERM...KT
LONG TERM...MOZLEY
AVIATION...KT
