183 
FXUS65 KPUB 260523
AFDPUB

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Pueblo CO
1123 PM MDT Tue Oct 25 2022

.SHORT TERM...(This evening through Wednesday)
Issued at 250 PM MDT Tue Oct 25 2022

Key Messages:

1) Slightly cooler for our Wednesday with snow beginning in the 
mountains and breezy winds elsewhere.

Currently..

Satellite imagery depicts fairly zonal flow, with increasing cloud 
cover coming in from our northwest, and widespread mountain wave 
cloud formations over Colorado as well. Temperatures have warmed 
into the low to mid 60s for most of the plains, and winds are 
following normal diurnal patterns in most areas. A trough is 
deepening over the Pacific Northwest.

Tonight and Tomorrow..

An upper trough pushing across the northern plains drops a weak cold 
frontal boundary across eastern Colorado overnight. This feature 
doesn't look to bring too many changes, but we could see some 
briefly breezy northerly winds as it passes, particularly north of 
Highway 50. Daytime high temperatures will be a couple of degrees 
cooler tomorrow as well, with most of the plains warming into the 
60s, mountain valleys getting into the 50s, and higher terrain 
locations staying in the 40s. Upslope flow sets up over our central 
mountains, where snow showers are expected to begin as early as 9pm 
this evening.

As the Pacific Northwest trough and associated low pressure system 
push into the Northern Rockies tomorrow, our flow aloft will turn 
from mostly zonal to southwesterly throughout the day. This will 
bring continued orographic upslope flow and plenty of moisture to 
our central mountains, where light to moderate snowfall is expected 
throughout the day. Snow is forecast to spread southeastward, into 
the La Garitas and San Juans by early morning and possibly even into 
the western facing slopes of the Wet Mountains by early afternoon as 
well. As the system plunges southward into the four corners region 
by tomorrow afternoon, the pressure gradient will tighten overhead. 
This will bring gusty southwesterly winds to the San Luis Valley and 
breezy southerly winds to our eastern plains as well. Relative 
humidity values behind tonight's frontal boundary keep us too moist 
to warrant fire weather headlines at this time, but winds could gust 
up to 30 mph tomorrow afternoon.

.LONG TERM...(Wednesday night through Tuesday)
Issued at 250 PM MDT Tue Oct 25 2022

Key messages:

1) A deepening major shortwave trough is going to impact the region 
with snow (mainly over mountains), windy conditions, and colder 
temperatures Wednesday night through Friday morning.

2) Ridge will build in with a warning trend and drier conditions 
throughout the weekend and into early next week.

Detailed discussion:

Wednesday night through Friday... 

Deterministic models are in relatively close agreement of a 
deepening of a major shortwave trough with a positively tilted axis 
propagating in over the region by late Wednesday night though 
Thursday. The position of the associated closed low at the 500 mb 
level is generally close, with the exception of the Canadian model, 
with being over the southeastern portion of Idaho. The Canadian is 
the outlier with having the position being over the western portion 
of Wyoming. This keeps the progression slightly ahead of the other 
models and allows for a better chance of precip over the plains if 
this verifies. Otherwise, the progression has only slight deviation 
between the models with the low moving nearly over the Four Corners 
area as the shortwave continues to deepen. This will result in the 
mountains getting most of the precip with this storm system, as the 
U/L divergence is centered over the Continental Divide area. 

The cold front associated with this system looks to move over the 
CWA around between 3 and 6 AM during the morning on Thursday. The 
high resolution models such as the HRRR has the front arriving as 
early as 2 AM over the most northern portion of El Paso County. 
There could be some snow showers with accumulating snow of possibly 
an inch or more over the Palmer Divide and northern I-25 corridor in 
El Paso County as it does, which may result in some tricky travel 
conditions during the morning commute for this area as it does. Due 
to upsloping as the winds become northeasterly, there could be some 
locally heavy snowfall amounts for the eastern facing slopes of the 
Wet Mountains and the Sangre de Cristo Mountains. With some upper 
level diffluence over the central mountains, there could be enough 
PVA to allow for sufficient instability and some thunder possible 
with the snow showers, especially over the Sawatch Range during the 
afternoon on Thursday.

Northerly winds will continue to increase and become rather blustery 
throughout the day over the plains, especially over eastern El Paso 
County, where the winds could gust close to High Wind Warning 
criteria for a few hours. With snow showers likely over the Palmer 
Divide, this may produce occasional blowing snow with near white out 
conditions in this area. These winds will continue to come down by 
later in the evening as the gradient relaxes. As the U/L low 
continues to progress further to the southeast over central New 
Mexico, the mid level flow at the 700 mb level is going to turn to 
the northeast, with the strongest winds being reflected in the 
ECMWF. Given this, there could be some locally heavier snowfall 
amounts over the southern Sangre de Cristo Mountains by later in the 
day on Thursday. 

The colder air advection should keep temperatures mainly in the 40s 
over most of the plains, and perhaps only making it into the 50s 
over the far eastern plains. As a whole, temperatures will be 
anywhere between 10 to 20 degrees below the seasonal average across 
the CWA. Upsloping should keep most areas overcast along the I-25 
corridor. The snow level will drop to as low as around 5300 feet 
over northern El Paso County. Some of the rain/snow showers will 
continue over the southeastern plains into the early morning hours 
on Friday due to wrap around moisture, although most of the CWA 
should clear out by then as the low pressure system continues to 
move out of the area. Due to sufficient radiational cooling because 
of this, there will be very cold temperatures on Thursday night 
through Friday morning, with some locations in the higher mountain 
valleys dropping into the single digits and perhaps even below zero. 
There will also be a slight chance of some freezing fog in some of 
the higher valleys and the San Luis Valley. Friday will be slightly 
warmer as surface winds out of the north weaken and switch back to a 
southeasterly direction by later in the day.

Saturday through Tuesday...

As a ridge continues to build back in over the region throughout the 
weekend, temperatures will return back to the seasonal average with 
drier conditions expected to last into early next week under high 
pressure. Looking past the forecast period into the later part of 
next week, there are some indications with ensemble data of the EPS 
and GEFS alike of the ridge breaking down and a longwave trough 
beginning to move in over the region and possibly influence the 
region with colder and unsettled weather.  -Stewey

&&

.AVIATION...(For the 06Z TAFS through 06Z Wednesday night)
Issued at 1123 PM MDT Tue Oct 25 2022

KCOS, KPUB, KALS... VFR conditions are expected over the next 24 
hours. Clouds, particularly mid level clouds, with persist through 
tonight and continue through the rest of the TAF period for all 
three TAF sites. Thinning in cloud coverage is expected during the 
afternoon timeframe, but are expected to increase in coverage again 
near the end of this TAF period. Winds are also expected to increase 
tomorrow afternoon, particularly for KCOS and KALS, with gusty winds 
around 20 knots.

&&

.PUB WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
NONE.
&&

$$

SHORT TERM...EHR
LONG TERM...STEWARD
AVIATION...SIMCOE
