068 
FXUS65 KPUB 262115
AFDPUB

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Pueblo CO
315 PM MDT Wed Oct 26 2022

.SHORT TERM...(This evening through Thursday)
Issued at 314 PM MDT Wed Oct 26 2022

...A storm system will impact southeast Colorado with mountain snow 
and colder temperatures from now through Friday morning...

Key messages:

1) Mountain snow over the central mountains today will begin to 
increase in intensity through the night and move over the southern
mountains tomorrow afternoon through Friday morning.

2) Some of the snow showers over the higher peaks could be 
locally heavy at times. Thundersnow will also be possible, 
especially during the afternoon hours.

3) There will be areas of higher snowfall amounts possible over 
areas of the the southern I-25 corridor tomorrow evening through 
early Friday morning. Some snow will be possible for the northern 
I- 25 corridor tomorrow morning as well.

4) A cold front will move through and provide much colder 
temperatures for tomorrow. Lows tomorrow night could get down to 
the single digits and below zero for a few locations in the higher
mountains valleys and the San Luis Valley.

Detailed discussion:

Currently...

A major shortwave trough with a closed low is continuing to advance 
towards the region. Looking at radar imagery, this is currently 
producing snow showers over the central mountains and this will 
continue throughout the afternoon. as the mid level southwesterly 
flow continues to advect more moisture ahead of the trough over the 
area. There are some snow showers also beginning to form over the 
northern Sangre de Cristo Mountains, yet these are generally on the 
light side. Temperatures have remained slightly below the seasonal 
average for max temperatures today and clouds are increasing over 
the western portion of the CWA and will continue to do so and expand 
out over the majority of southeast Colorado. Winds have already 
begin to increase out of the southwest over the higher elevations 
and will continue to do so as the low pressure system nears the 
region.

Tonight...

The U/L low will continue to advance towards the area and there will 
be an associated cold front that will move though the CWA later in 
the evening and through early tomorrow morning, which will advect in 
much cooler temperatures behind it and increase winds out of the 
north as it does. Some of these winds will become quite strong and 
gusty over the plains, especially east of the northern I-25 
corridor, where some gusts could exceed 50 mph for a few hours after 
frontal passage early tomorrow morning. Temperatures will continue 
to drop off after frontal passage and clouds will increase and lower 
over the plains with some light accumulating snow possible over the 
Palmer Divide area with upsloping possibly resulting in a couple of 
inches on the northern facing slopes. Snow and rain will initially 
mix for the Colorado Springs area, then should change over to all 
snow by later in the morning with up to an inch possible. 
Temperatures will continue to fall to right around the freezing mark 
over the northern plains, and be generally in the teens and 20s for 
high country.

Tomorrow through Friday morning...

Snow will eventually increase in intensity as the upper level low 
propagates southeastward and allows an area of PVA with upper level 
diffluence to move over the western half of the CWA. Due to enough 
instability with CAPE anywhere between 200 and 400 J/kg, there could 
be some thundersnow possible, mainly during the afternoon hours and 
over the central mountains and Sangre de Cristo Mountains later in 
the evening. These snow showers will continue to spread over the 
Sangre de Cristo Mountains and become rather heavy at times as the 
700 mb flow turns to the north-northeast and enhances isentropic 
upgliding. The U/L low will pass over the Four Corners area and 
continue to dive south into southern New Mexico, which will allow 
for the mid to upper level flow to switch to a northeasterly 
direction and weaken snow showers over the Central Mountains. 
Surface winds shifting to the northeast will also allow for showers 
below 5500 feet and snow showers above 5500 feet to become more 
prevalent over the souther I-25 corridor area, Wet Mountains and the 
southern Sangre de Cristo Mountains, especially for the eastern 
facing slopes. There could be some locally heavy snowfall with more 
convective type showers developing over the southern Sangre de 
Cristo Mountains later in the evening hours where there is going to 
be a little more in the way of instability with higher omega forcing 
values.

High temperatures will only top out in the 40s for most of the 
plains, with only mid 50s for the far eastern plains, and generally 
anywhere between 15 to 20 degrees below the seasonal average, with 
most of the plains and especially along the I-25 corridor remaining 
mostly cloudy to overcast throughout the entire day. By later in the 
night and throughout the early morning on Friday, there will 
continue to be snow showers that will begin to taper off over the 
southern mountains and Raton Mesa. These will continue to weaken in 
intensity and linger over the higher terrain and along the eastern 
facing slopes until around 7 to 9 AM. There will also be some 
showers/snow possible over the southeastern plains due to some wrap 
around moisture from the surface low to the southeast of Colorado, 
but these should also move out of the CWA early tomorrow morning. 
Lows tomorrow night will get quite cold under clearing skies for 
most of the CWA, especially in the higher mountain valleys and the 
San Luis Valley, and will likely drop into the single digits or 
possibly below zero. -Stewey

.LONG TERM...(Thursday night through Wednesday)
Issued at 314 PM MDT Wed Oct 26 2022

Key Messages:

1) Dry but cool over the weekend.

2) Warming temperatures to start the next work week, with possibly 
another system by mid-week.

Friday through Monday...As the upper low pressure system pushes into 
TX and exits the area, a period of dry conditions and temperatures 
at or slightly below seasonal normals is expected over the weekend, 
with warming then forecast for Monday. In the wake of the departing 
system, a very cold start Fri morning is anticipated as temporary 
ridging aloft pushes in with clear skies. For Saturday, a minor 
shortwave aloft will sweep across the Rockies and bring some 
enhanced cloud cover for the forecast area, then cool, dry northwest 
flow aloft then scheduled for Sunday. Westerly zonal flow will then 
develop for Monday, and that is when the temps are expected to start 
warming back up. Therefore, look for high temps in the upper 40s and 
50s for the high valleys Fri through Sun, while the plains warm into 
the mid 50s to mid 60s. On Mon temps will climb into the 50s for the 
high valleys, and 60s to near 70F for the plains.

Tuesday and Wednesday...A significant low pressure system starts to 
gather strength off the coast of British Columbia early Tue, and the 
flow aloft across the Desert SW and Four Corners region shifts to a 
more southwest direction as this storm system starts to drop south 
along the West Coast. There is some disagreement among the long 
range models on how strong this system will actually be when it 
eventually pushes east, so for now feel that the current trend of 
warmer temps, increased cloud cover and pcpn returning to the higher 
terrain by Wed. Latest extended procedure brought the onset of pcpn 
to the Continental Divide by Tue eve, and feel that this is probably 
a bit early, but given these are isolated pops will leave for the 
time being. Plan on highs in the 50s to near 60F both days for the 
high valleys, and in the 60s to lower 70s for the plains. Moore

&&

.AVIATION...(For the 00Z TAFS through 00Z Thursday evening)
Issued at 314 PM MDT Wed Oct 26 2022

VFR conditions are expected to prevail for KALS throughout all of 
the forecast period, and most of the forecast period for KCOS and 
KPUB, although conditions will deteriorate for these two location 
towards the end of the forecast period. Depending on the timing of a 
frontal boundary, CIGs in KCOS will be down to IFR criteria by 
around 12Z with -RASN and prevailing VIS around 5SM and temporarily 
reduced VIS below 3SM. CIGs will fall to below IFR criteria for KPUB 
around 16Z with VCSH. -RASN will change over to -SN around 18Z for 
KCOS and this could restrict VIS down to 1SM or below. There could 
also be some -SHRA/-SNRASN on station at KPUB after 18Z, which could 
temporarily reduce VIS down below 3SM.

For the winds at KALS, they will begin to be influence by the trough 
approaching with winds increasing out of the SSW by later in the 
afternoon and being gusty at times up to 26 kts. At KCOS, winds will 
begin to increase towards at the end of the forecast period out of 
the NNW-NNE after FROPA occurs, at around 10Z for KCOS, and 11Z for 
KPUB. Gusts could peak as high as 36 kts for KCOS after 12Z and as 
high as 38kts for KPUB after 16Z. Winds will begin to diminish going 
into the early hours of the morning tomorrow and remain out of the 
NNE-ENE'ly direction at all terminals. -Stewey

&&

.PUB WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
Winter Weather Advisory from 6 PM this evening to noon MDT 
Thursday for COZ058-060.

Winter Weather Advisory from 9 AM Thursday to 6 AM MDT Friday 
for COZ073>075-080.

&&

$$

SHORT TERM...STEWARD
LONG TERM...MOORE
AVIATION...STEWARD
