662 
FXUS63 KLMK 261052
AFDLMK

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Louisville KY
652 AM EDT Wed Oct 26 2022

...Updated Aviation Discussion... 

.Short Term...(Today and tonight)
Issued at 250 AM EDT Wed Oct 26 2022

Sfc low and its associated upper low will work northeast across 
central/northern Indiana this morning into the eastern Great Lakes 
southern Ontario during the day. Cross section model meteograms show 
nearly saturated low-levels below 800mb along with model soundings 
showing an inversion between 900-800mb trapping low-level wrap 
around moisture over the area for most of the day. The result will 
be stubborn low stratus for the bulk of the day with a period of 
drizzle/sprinkles during the morning hours. Cloud cover will keep 
temperatures steady mainly in the 50s topping out in the mid/upper 
50s by the afternoon. With the sfc low slowly moving off to the NE 
and a sfc high over the central Plains building eastward during the 
day a tight pressure gradient will remain over the region. winds 
will initially be gusty out of the the WSW then becoming out of the 
NW by the afternoon. Some gusts could be between 15-25mph, mainly 
during the morning. As the aforementioned high pressure builds in, 
clouds will begin to clear from the west to east as we go into the 
evening and overnight. 

More clearing will take place overnight as winds diminish and become 
more northerly. Drier air will filter in as sfc high builds over 
central/norther IN with slight ridging aloft developing over the 
Ohio Valley. Lows will be in the low/mid 30s across southern 
IN/north central KY with mid/upper 30s across the south and east 
where some cloud cover could linger through the first half of the 
overnight keeping temperatures warmer.

.Long Term...(Thursday through Tuesday)
Issued at 245 AM EDT Wed Oct 26 2022

Expect to see dry and near-normal temperatures to close out the work 
week. Thursday should feature a sfc high over the Great Lakes 
region, filtering NE sfc flow through our area. To our west, a 
digging trough looks to close off an upper low somewhere in the 
CO/NM area, which will eventually be the source for our next rain 
chances. We should see plenty of sunshine on Thursday thanks to high 
pressure, but the cool NE flow will help keep temps a touch cooler 
than average, with forecast highs in the upper 50s and low 60s. 
Friday should be a bit warmer as low and mid level flow becomes 
southwesterly. Forecast highs for Friday are in the upper 60s and 
near 70. 

Deterministic guidance appears to be in better agreement with the 
NBM this morning, and the overall trend continues to be a slightly 
later arrival of precip chances. Friday and most of Saturday appear 
dry, with the best rain chances coming Sunday and into Monday. The 
upper low expected to be over the ArkLaTex region by Saturday 
morning will begin to track northeastward and open into a shortwave 
by Sunday. Warmest day of the long term period should be Saturday 
(around 70 across the area) as we see WAA and moisture advection 
increase ahead of the low pressure system. 

We should see another cool down to below average temps for Sunday 
and Monday as plenty of clouds and rain blanket the region. Monday 
will be rainy in the morning and early afternoon, but by the evening 
hours we should begin to see drier conditions set in as the 
shortwave continues to the northeast. Lingering cloud cover and cool 
temps are possible during Monday evening for Halloween activities. 
Sunshine and average temps return by Tuesday.

&&

.Aviation...(12Z TAF Issuance)
Issued at 650 AM EDT Wed Oct 26 2022

IMPACTS/CONFIDENCE:
- Breezy/gusty winds today from west to northwest to north: High
- Morning gusts 15-20kts this morning: High
- MVFR CIGS Half of the forecast period: High
- IFR CIGS this morning: Moderate

Satellite imagery shows low stratus wrapped around the stacked 
storms system moving through IN into OH. With plenty of low-level 
wrap around moisture trapped beneath an inversion MVFR conditions 
will prevail through the first half of the forecast cycle. Morning 
observations do show a few locations dropping into the IFR range and 
expect a few more locations to bounce between IFR/MVFR for the first 
couple of hours of the forecast. There are also pockets of light 
rain/drizzle associated with the low stratus. This should linger 
until about 14/15z. Clouds will start to clear out this afternoon 
and continue into the evening from the west to the east. HNB/BWG 
going into VFR by mid afternoon but SDF/LEX holding off until late 
afternoon evening. 

Winds will also be gusty and changing directions behind the 
departing system. Winds could gust to near 20kts this morning before 
diminishing later this afternoon. Winds will start westerly then 
start to veer NW through the afternoon and northerly by the evening 
then NE overnight into tomorrow morning.

&&

.LMK WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
IN...None.
KY...None.
&&

$$

Short Term...BTN
Long Term...CJP
Aviation...BTN
