280 
FXUS63 KLMK 261744
AFDLMK

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Louisville KY
144 PM EDT Wed Oct 26 2022

...Updated Aviation Discussion...

.Short Term...(Today and tonight)
Issued at 250 AM EDT Wed Oct 26 2022

Sfc low and its associated upper low will work northeast across 
central/northern Indiana this morning into the eastern Great Lakes 
southern Ontario during the day. Cross section model meteograms show 
nearly saturated low-levels below 800mb along with model soundings 
showing an inversion between 900-800mb trapping low-level wrap 
around moisture over the area for most of the day. The result will 
be stubborn low stratus for the bulk of the day with a period of 
drizzle/sprinkles during the morning hours. Cloud cover will keep 
temperatures steady mainly in the 50s topping out in the mid/upper 
50s by the afternoon. With the sfc low slowly moving off to the NE 
and a sfc high over the central Plains building eastward during the 
day a tight pressure gradient will remain over the region. winds 
will initially be gusty out of the the WSW then becoming out of the 
NW by the afternoon. Some gusts could be between 15-25mph, mainly 
during the morning. As the aforementioned high pressure builds in, 
clouds will begin to clear from the west to east as we go into the 
evening and overnight. 

More clearing will take place overnight as winds diminish and become 
more northerly. Drier air will filter in as sfc high builds over 
central/norther IN with slight ridging aloft developing over the 
Ohio Valley. Lows will be in the low/mid 30s across southern 
IN/north central KY with mid/upper 30s across the south and east 
where some cloud cover could linger through the first half of the 
overnight keeping temperatures warmer.

.Long Term...(Thursday through Tuesday)
Issued at 245 AM EDT Wed Oct 26 2022

Expect to see dry and near-normal temperatures to close out the work 
week. Thursday should feature a sfc high over the Great Lakes 
region, filtering NE sfc flow through our area. To our west, a 
digging trough looks to close off an upper low somewhere in the 
CO/NM area, which will eventually be the source for our next rain 
chances. We should see plenty of sunshine on Thursday thanks to high 
pressure, but the cool NE flow will help keep temps a touch cooler 
than average, with forecast highs in the upper 50s and low 60s. 
Friday should be a bit warmer as low and mid level flow becomes 
southwesterly. Forecast highs for Friday are in the upper 60s and 
near 70. 

Deterministic guidance appears to be in better agreement with the 
NBM this morning, and the overall trend continues to be a slightly 
later arrival of precip chances. Friday and most of Saturday appear 
dry, with the best rain chances coming Sunday and into Monday. The 
upper low expected to be over the ArkLaTex region by Saturday 
morning will begin to track northeastward and open into a shortwave 
by Sunday. Warmest day of the long term period should be Saturday 
(around 70 across the area) as we see WAA and moisture advection 
increase ahead of the low pressure system. 

We should see another cool down to below average temps for Sunday 
and Monday as plenty of clouds and rain blanket the region. Monday 
will be rainy in the morning and early afternoon, but by the evening 
hours we should begin to see drier conditions set in as the 
shortwave continues to the northeast. Lingering cloud cover and cool 
temps are possible during Monday evening for Halloween activities. 
Sunshine and average temps return by Tuesday.

&&

.Aviation...(18Z TAF Issuance)
Issued at 143 PM EDT Wed Oct 26 2022

As low pressure continues to peel off to the northeast, low stratus 
will gradually erode from west to east across central KY and 
southern IN through this evening. SCT low clouds are expected to 
linger over LEX into early Thursday. 

Breezy northwest winds will diminish substantially after sunset 
tonight as mixing decreases and the pressure gradient relaxes. Sfc 
high pressure will build east across the southern Great Lakes, 
providing weak northerly flow. Northeasterly winds will increase to 
near 10 kt by mid-morning Thursday with gusts to around 15 kt during 
the afternoon hours.

&&

.LMK WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
IN...None.
KY...None.
&&

$$

Short Term...BTN
Long Term...CJP
Aviation...EBW
