863 
FXUS63 KLMK 261903
AFDLMK

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Louisville KY
303 PM EDT Wed Oct 26 2022

.Short Term...(This evening through Thursday)
Issued at 255 PM EDT Wed Oct 26 2022

Low pressure continues to lift off to the northeast as sfc high 
pressure builds east across Iowa and Missouri. The western edge of 
the low stratus can be seen on satellite imagery making steady 
eastward progress across Indiana and western KY. These clouds will 
gradually scatter out from west to east through this evening. SCT 
low clouds may linger overnight, particularly over southeastern IN 
and the KY Bluegrass. 

Sfc high pressure builds ENE across the Great Lakes tonight through 
Thursday. Expect partly to mostly clear skies overnight. It will be 
chilly Thursday morning with lows in the mid 30s to lower 40s. 
Thursday will feature partly to mostly sunny skies, a 10 mph 
northeast wind, and afternoon highs in the low to mid 60s.

&&

.Long Term...(Thursday night through Wednesday)
Issued at 255 PM EDT Wed Oct 26 2022

As we head through the end of the week and into the upcoming 
weekend, the main synoptic feature of interest will be an upper low 
which is expected to move gradually eastward from the Four Corners 
region to west Texas by Friday morning. As this disturbance moves 
eastward, it is expected to evolve from an open-wave trough to a 
closed low, slowing as it becomes detached from the influence of the 
polar jet. At the surface, broad 1036 mb high will be centered near 
Lake Champlain Friday morning, with ridging extending WSW into the 
Great Lakes and Ohio Valley. Nearly-stacked sfc low will be located 
across central Texas, moving slowly eastward Friday into Saturday 
towards the lower Mississippi Valley.

Across central Kentucky and southern Indiana, Friday and most of 
Saturday should stay dry and fairly seasonable as low-level easterly 
flow prevents a rapid rise in temperatures despite mid-level S/SW 
flow. Highs are generally expected to reach the upper 60s and lower 
70s both days, with Saturday expected to be the warmer of the two 
days. Lows should bottom out in the 30s and lower 40s Friday 
morning, also warming slightly into the low-to-mid 40s for Saturday 
morning.

Saturday into Saturday night, a transient upper-level shortwave will 
begin to ingest the closed low over Texas, allowing it to open up 
and progress NE-ward toward the Mississippi and Ohio Valleys. 
Moisture from the Gulf of Mexico will wrap around the E and NE sides 
of the low, initially causing increases in clouds from SW to NE 
across the area on Saturday before becoming sufficiently deep to 
cause precipitation Saturday night into Sunday. Ensembles have come 
into better agreement with the timing of this system, with the 
greatest precipitation chances now expected for the day on Sunday. 
Moisture parameters are not exceptionally high with this system, 
with PW values of between 1-1.25" (around 1.5 stdev above EPS/GEFS 
ensemble climatology) depicted in latest guidance. Instability also 
looks to be insufficient for severe concerns or even widespread 
thunder, with soundings showing weak lapse rates and little to no 
CAPE. 

As the aforementioned disturbance exits the region Sunday 
night, a secondary vorticity lobe is being depicted in medium-range 
guidance, with another cool and dreary day expected on Monday 
assuming perfect prog of this solution. However, the vast majority 
of the precipitation should exit the area by Monday evening, setting 
up what would likely be a cloudy and cool Halloween night. In total, 
QPF in ensemble guidance generally ranges between 0.25 and 0.75" 
for Sunday through Monday.

For the rest of the first half of next week, temperatures should 
warm with drier conditions expected as mid-level SW flow and sfc 
high pressure returns across Indiana and Kentucky.

&&

.Aviation...(18Z TAF Issuance)
Issued at 143 PM EDT Wed Oct 26 2022

As low pressure continues to peel off to the northeast, low stratus 
will gradually erode from west to east across central KY and 
southern IN through this evening. SCT low clouds are expected to 
linger over LEX into early Thursday. 

Breezy northwest winds will diminish substantially after sunset 
tonight as mixing decreases and the pressure gradient relaxes. Sfc 
high pressure will build east across the southern Great Lakes, 
providing weak northerly flow. Northeasterly winds will increase to 
near 10 kt by mid-morning Thursday with gusts to around 15 kt during 
the afternoon hours.


&&

.LMK WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
IN...None.
KY...None.
&&

$$

Short Term...EBW
Long Term...CSG
Aviation...EBW
