622 
FXUS63 KLMK 260542
AFDLMK

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Louisville KY
142 AM EDT Wed Oct 26 2022

...Updated Aviation Discussion... 

.Forecast Update...
Issued at 925 PM EDT Tue Oct 25 2022

Main rain shield is making its way eastward across the Bluegrass 
region, with another more focused boundary sparking some shallow 
showers currently moving across the Hoosier National Forest. No 
longer under the gun for severe weather as instability failed to 
materialize, but we could still hear a rumble or two of thunder if 
anything gets tall enough along the effective boundary.  

After midnight expect to taper down to drizzle as cooler air cuts in 
from the SW under the frontal inversion, and deep cyclonic flow 
persists. Will maintain the 20 POP across southern Indiana and 
northern Kentucky to cover this, but little or no QPF.  

Forecast updates mainly served to freshen up wording as both thunder 
chances and winds have diminished nicely from earlier.

&&

.Short Term...(This evening through Wednesday)
Issued at 255 PM EDT Tue Oct 25 2022

Surface dew points into the mid 60s and precipitable water values of 
1.7" have surged northward into southern Illinois in a corridor of 
strong moisture transport and theta-e advection ahead of an incoming 
cold front. This has supported a band of showers and a few rumbles 
of thunder from Illinois to Mississippi. As low pressure over 
southeast Missouri advances to southern Illinois early this evening 
and then to Lower Michigan overnight, it will drag its cold front 
through the Ohio Valley accompanied by the band of rain. A 5H speed 
max rounding the south and east sides of the upper low has helped to 
sustain a very narrow band of enhanced reflectivities within the 
broader band of showers. However, instability and DCAPE are still 
very weak, even as far south as Tennessee. Still plenty of SRH, so 
will need to keep an eye on any bowing segments, line breaks, etc, 
even without much thunder. Still, hail is not a concern so locally 
gusty winds remain as the primary threat. The bottom line is that 
the risk of severe storms is quite low.

Behind the front late tonight into the pre-dawn hours wrap-around 
moisture will provide us with a low stratus ceiling and possibly 
some sprinkles or drizzle. Lows will generally be in the middle and 
upper 40s with winds staying up around 10-15 mph as the wrapped-up 
system moves through, resulting in a gray, damp, chilly sunrise.

High RH below 7H Wednesday will support a continuation of the cloudy 
conditions through the day, though we may start to see some clearing 
toward sunset as we benefit from high pressure crossing the Midwest. 
Temperatures on Wednesday probably won't get out of the 50s for most.

.Long Term...(Wednesday night through Tuesday)
Issued at 245 PM EDT Tue Oct 25 2022

Dry, cooler weather is forecast for the second half of the work 
week. Broad SW flow will be in place aloft with an upper level 
trough digging southeast over the Four Corners. Strengthening sfc 
high pressure will pass northeast over the Great Lakes, with a 
northeasterly sfc wind over the Ohio Valley. Clearing skies with 
time will allow temperatures to fall into the mid 30s to lower 40s 
early Thursday. Thursday will feature abundant sunshine with 
afternoon highs in the low to mid 60s. Thursday night will again be 
cool with lows around 40 (mid/upper 30s in the coolest spots). 
Temperatures should rebound into the mid 60s to lower 70s Friday 
afternoon. 

The upper level low over Texas at the end of the week will slowly 
open up and lift northeast into the Ohio Valley by Sunday. Southerly 
flow ahead of this wave will advect moisture into the region over 
the weekend, with rain chances gradually increasing from south to 
north. Saturday may end up completely dry, but will hang on to 
slight chance PoPs in south-central KY. The best chance of rain is 
Sunday into Monday, but rainfall amounts look modest. 

Temperatures on Saturday should approach 70 degrees, assuming we 
stay dry. Sunday into Monday looks cooler with lower clouds and rain 
more prevalent. Sunday is shaping up to be the wettest day, and 
showers should become very light and more spotty on Halloween as 
moisture begins to exit off to the northeast.

&&

.Aviation...(06Z TAF Issuance)
Issued at 135 AM EDT Wed Oct 26 2022

IMPACTS/CONFIDENCE:
- MVFR to IFR CIGS through the overnight into morning and afternoon.
- Gusty winds through the morning.
- High confidence on MVFR for most of the period. 
- Moderate to high on IFR but low on duration of IFR conditions.
- High on gusty winds.

Radar imagery shows an area of moderate showers mainly north of LEX 
and moving off to the ENE. While satellite imagery along with other 
sfc observations showing low stratus setting up over southern IL, 
southern IN and western KY around the sfc low that is slowly working 
ENE over the Ohio Valley. We will see mainly MVFR flight categories 
for the bulk of the forecast period with times of IFR, especially 
for HNB-SDF-LEX. Model soundings along with height cross-sections 
show high RH below 700mb below a post frontal inversion. This 
trapped moisture will keep this low stratus through the bulk of the 
day into the evening. Eventually, clouds will start to clear out as 
high pressure off to the west begins to build in over the Ohio 
Valley during the day. In the mean time, as the sfc low moves off to 
the northeast into the Great Lakes and the aforementioned high 
pressure builds in, there will be a tight pressure gradient 
resulting in gusty winds initially out of the WSW before becoming 
NNW near the end of the forecast period. The strongest gusts will 
take place this morning closest to the front and sfc low as it works 
across southern IN.

&&

.LMK WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
IN...None.
KY...None.
&&

$$

Update...RAS
Short Term...13
Long Term...EBW
Aviation...BTN
