483 
FXUS63 KLMK 260656
AFDLMK

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Louisville KY
256 AM EDT Wed Oct 26 2022

.Short Term...(Today and tonight)
Issued at 250 AM EDT Wed Oct 26 2022

Sfc low and its associated upper low will work northeast across 
central/northern Indiana this morning into the eastern Great Lakes 
southern Ontario during the day. Cross section model meteograms show 
nearly saturated low-levels below 800mb along with model soundings 
showing an inversion between 900-800mb trapping low-level wrap 
around moisture over the area for most of the day. The result will 
be stubborn low stratus for the bulk of the day with a period of 
drizzle/sprinkles during the morning hours. Cloud cover will keep 
temperatures steady mainly in the 50s topping out in the mid/upper 
50s by the afternoon. With the sfc low slowly moving off to the NE 
and a sfc high over the central Plains building eastward during the 
day a tight pressure gradient will remain over the region. winds 
will initially be gusty out of the the WSW then becoming out of the 
NW by the afternoon. Some gusts could be between 15-25mph, mainly 
during the morning. As the aforementioned high pressure builds in, 
clouds will begin to clear from the west to east as we go into the 
evening and overnight. 

More clearing will take place overnight as winds diminish and become 
more northerly. Drier air will filter in as sfc high builds over 
central/norther IN with slight ridging aloft developing over the 
Ohio Valley. Lows will be in the low/mid 30s across southern 
IN/north central KY with mid/upper 30s across the south and east 
where some cloud cover could linger through the first half of the 
overnight keeping temperatures warmer.

&&

.Long Term...(Thursday through Tuesday)
Issued at 245 AM EDT Wed Oct 26 2022

Expect to see dry and near-normal temperatures to close out the work 
week. Thursday should feature a sfc high over the Great Lakes 
region, filtering NE sfc flow through our area. To our west, a 
digging trough looks to close off an upper low somewhere in the 
CO/NM area, which will eventually be the source for our next rain 
chances. We should see plenty of sunshine on Thursday thanks to high 
pressure, but the cool NE flow will help keep temps a touch cooler 
than average, with forecast highs in the upper 50s and low 60s. 
Friday should be a bit warmer as low and mid level flow becomes 
southwesterly. Forecast highs for Friday are in the upper 60s and 
near 70. 

Deterministic guidance appears to be in better agreement with the 
NBM this morning, and the overall trend continues to be a slightly 
later arrival of precip chances. Friday and most of Saturday appear 
dry, with the best rain chances coming Sunday and into Monday. The 
upper low expected to be over the ArkLaTex region by Saturday 
morning will begin to track northeastward and open into a shortwave 
by Sunday. Warmest day of the long term period should be Saturday 
(around 70 across the area) as we see WAA and moisture advection 
increase ahead of the low pressure system. 

We should see another cool down to below average temps for Sunday 
and Monday as plenty of clouds and rain blanket the region. Monday 
will be rainy in the morning and early afternoon, but by the evening 
hours we should begin to see drier conditions set in as the 
shortwave continues to the northeast. Lingering cloud cover and cool 
temps are possible during Monday evening for Halloween activities. 
Sunshine and average temps return by Tuesday.

&&

.Aviation...(06Z TAF Issuance)
Issued at 135 AM EDT Wed Oct 26 2022

IMPACTS/CONFIDENCE:
- MVFR to IFR CIGS through the overnight into morning and afternoon.
- Gusty winds through the morning.
- High confidence on MVFR for most of the period. 
- Moderate to high on IFR but low on duration of IFR conditions.
- High on gusty winds.

Radar imagery shows an area of moderate showers mainly north of LEX 
and moving off to the ENE. While satellite imagery along with other 
sfc observations showing low stratus setting up over southern IL, 
southern IN and western KY around the sfc low that is slowly working 
ENE over the Ohio Valley. We will see mainly MVFR flight categories 
for the bulk of the forecast period with times of IFR, especially 
for HNB-SDF-LEX. Model soundings along with height cross-sections 
show high RH below 700mb below a post frontal inversion. This 
trapped moisture will keep this low stratus through the bulk of the 
day into the evening. Eventually, clouds will start to clear out as 
high pressure off to the west begins to build in over the Ohio 
Valley during the day. In the mean time, as the sfc low moves off to 
the northeast into the Great Lakes and the aforementioned high 
pressure builds in, there will be a tight pressure gradient 
resulting in gusty winds initially out of the WSW before becoming 
NNW near the end of the forecast period. The strongest gusts will 
take place this morning closest to the front and sfc low as it works 
across southern IN.


&&

.LMK WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
IN...None.
KY...None.
&&

$$

Short Term...BTN
Long Term...CJP
Aviation...BTN
