686 
FXUS63 KAPX 260345
AFDAPX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Gaylord MI
1145 PM EDT Tue Oct 25 2022

.UPDATE...
Issued at 944 PM EDT Tue Oct 25 2022

Cold front is slowly moving across northern MI, held up by a
1001mb surface low nearing HUF/Terre Haute. The low will move 
quickly ne toward Lk Huron into Wed morning. Rain band is 
occurring near and behind the front, bringing solid rain to most 
of northern MI (precip has just started along the ne lower MI 
coast). Widespread precip expected thru the night; perhaps western
Chip/Mack Cos see rain start to diminish by daybreak. Just minor 
tweaks needed to the ongoing damp and cooler forecast.

&&

.NEAR TERM...(Through Tonight)
Issued at 258 PM EDT Tue Oct 25 2022

...Turning Wet and Cooler Tonight...

High Impact Weather Potential...Low.

Pattern Synopsis/Forecast...A slow moving cold front will cross
northern Michigan tonight. This front is trailing from low
pressure over Hudson Bay, with its movement slowed by another low
traveling up the front from the mid-Mississippi Valley. 
Scattered, mainly light, showers have been impacting eastern Upper
and the coastal area of northwest Lower for much of the day. The 
rainfall will become more widespread tonight as the southern low 
and associated upper-level wave draw closer, even though these 
features will pass to our south and east.

The forcing currently in place over the forecast area is not
terribly strong, which is why the rainfall is rather spotty
despite impressively high precipitable water values approaching
1.5" in the vicinity of the front. In addition, the pre frontal
air mass was quite dry per 12Z KAPX sounding. Better forcing will
arrive tonight with the approach of the wave to the south which
should result in widespread rainfall for much of the area.

The rainfall and colder air moving in behind the front will see
most areas seeing overnight lows at least 10 degrees cooler than
last night, but this is still about 10 degrees warmer that normal.
Look for readings mainly in the 40s, with some 50s near Saginaw
Bay.

&&

.SHORT TERM...(Wednesday through Friday)
Issued at 258 PM EDT Tue Oct 25 2022

High Impact Weather Potential: Minimal.

A cold front associated with an area of low pressure over Hudson Bay 
will continue to drag slowly through northern Michigan through 
Wednesday morning/early afternoon. This front and associated 
moisture should move out of the forecast area by Wednesday 
evening...diminishing from west to east throughout the day as high 
pressure and much drier air begins to build over the Great Lakes. 
The Grand Traverse Bay region will be the first to see the rain come 
to an end during the morning hours, while the coastline communities 
of Lake Huron will be the last, into the afternoon hours. QPF 
amounts in addition to whatever falls later today through the 
overnight hours should be around 0.25-0.50". Northwest winds pick up 
in intensity with gusts of around 25-35 mph behind the front 
Wednesday and Wednesday night. This high pressure will dominate 
northern Michigan's weather through the end of this forecast period 
and beyond. Winds will be fairly light Thursday and Friday...with 
Friday having a southwesterly component.

Temperatures behind the aforementioned cold front will be much 
cooler than the past several days...only reaching into the mid 40s 
to low 50s Wednesday. Temperatures are forecast to be in the upper 
40s to mid 50s both Thursday and Friday.

.LONG TERM...(Friday night through Tuesday)
Issued at 258 PM EDT Tue Oct 25 2022

High Impact Weather Potential...Minimal at this time.

High pressure and drier air continues to dominate the Great 
Lakes area and provide quiet and warmer than normal temperatures 
through the weekend and possibly into the beginning of the next work 
week. Temperatures will be mostly in the 50s throughout all of 
northern Michigan.

&&

.AVIATION...(For the 06Z TAFS through 06Z Wednesday night)
Issued at 1145 PM EDT Tue Oct 25 2022

Mostly IFR overnight and Wed morning, then slow improvement.

A cold front is slowly working across ne lower MI, with an area 
of low pressure in w central IN. SHRA will move across northern 
MI overnight. Cigs have generally been drifting lower, and that 
trend will continue. All sites but APN will see IFR cigs for the 
bulk of the night; APN will become IFR by Wed morning. Vsbys may
occasional drop to IFR territory as well, but MVFR to VFR vsbys 
will be much more common. Conditions will slowly improve to MVFR 
and VFR Wednesday afternoon and evening.

Gusty nw/nnw winds develop late tonight and Wednesday.

&&

.MARINE...
Issued at 258 PM EDT Tue Oct 25 2022

A slow moving cold front will cross the area tonight into early
Wednesday, accompanied by widespread rainfall. Winds will become 
gusty out of the northwest late tonight into Wednesday morning, 
with the gusty winds lingering into Wednesday night. Winds/waves 
will reach Small Craft Advisory criteria behind the front, with a 
few gusts near gale strength over the northern Lake Huron 
nearshore area on Wednesday.


&&

.APX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
MI...NONE.
LH...Small Craft Advisory from 8 AM Wednesday to 2 AM EDT Thursday 
     for LHZ345>349.
LM...Small Craft Advisory until 2 AM EDT Thursday for LMZ323-341-342-
     344>346.
LS...Small Craft Advisory from 8 AM Wednesday to 2 AM EDT Thursday 
     for LSZ321-322.
&&

$$

UPDATE...JZ
NEAR TERM...PBB
SHORT TERM...TJL
LONG TERM...TJL
AVIATION...JZ
MARINE...PBB
