657 
FXUS63 KAPX 261032
AFDAPX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Gaylord MI
632 AM EDT Wed Oct 26 2022

.NEAR TERM...(Today through Tonight)
Issued at 316 AM EDT Wed Oct 26 2022

...Rain ending; Breezy and cooler...

High Impact Weather Potential: Minimal.

Pattern Synopsis/Forecast: Deep troughing exists across the western 
Great Lakes early this morning with ridging downstream off the east 
coast. Upstream, zonal flow dominates the nation's midsection 
with lowered heights/weak troughing returning across the west 
coast. Surface low pressure continues to spin over Hudson Bay with
well-advertised slow-moving cold front draped across northern 
Michigan. Secondary area of low pressure riding along the front to
our south, now situated across southern MI and the Ohio Valley. 
Slow, but steady eastward progress is expected with these surface 
features today followed by surface high pressure settling overhead
this evening into tonight. 

Primary Forecast Concerns: Rain exits west to east today. Northwest 
gustiness and cooler temperatures.

Aforementioned cold front that's currently bisecting northern 
Michigan from north to south will make slow eastward progress over 
the next 6-8 hours, clearing the entirety of the forecast area by 
late morning. Ongoing widespread rain across much of northern 
Michigan will follow suite, exiting stage right from west to east 
today. Initially drying out across western areas this morning and 
eventually over far northeast lower by early-mid afternoon. 

Northwest winds ramp up behind this system in a solid cold air 
advection regime. Gusts 25-30 mph likely for many areas today, 
perhaps a touch stronger nearest the lakeshores. This will also 
continue to usher in much cooler air than has been experienced 
over the last several days. High temperatures today struggle to 
rise much above the mid-40s for many, but made to feel more like 
the 30s once you factor in the winds. The arrival of this cooler 
air may also promote just enough over-lake instability to garner a
few isolated lake induced sprinkles/showers later this afternoon 
and evening. While chances for this are low given incoming high 
pressure and much drier deep layer air, northwest flow areas of 
eastern upper have the "best" shot at seeing a few additional 
showers...and to am even lesser extent the higher terrain of 
northwest lower.

Higher pressure settles squarely atop the region tonight with partly 
clear skies and diminishing winds. Periods a bit of patchy fog in 
spots with low temperatures falling into the 30s area-wide with a few 
20s not out of the question in the typically cooler/interior locales.

&&

.SHORT TERM...(Thursday through Friday)
Issued at 316 AM EDT Wed Oct 26 2022

...High Pressure Thursday and Friday... 

High Impact Weather Potential...Minimal. 

Pattern Synopsis/Forecast and Possible Impacts...Thursday, shortwave 
ridging at 500 mb, in response to a deepening trough in New Mexico, 
looks to keep the region dry during the day. Thursday night, the 
drying from the sfc high over the region continues, but there is a 
500 mb shortwave trough that moves into the region after 06z/Fri. 
While precipitation isn't expected, there will be could over the 
region overnight. Friday will start out cloudy to partly sunny as 
high/mid level clouds move through with the 500 mb shortwave trough. 
Still think that there could be a sneaky shower or sprinkle during 
the afternoon, especially with the ECMWF having a little qpf along 
the trough north and south of the forecast, but not here. Friday 
night will be dry as the 500 mb ridge quickly builds back into the 
region. 

.LONG TERM...(Friday night through Tuesday)
Issued at 316 AM EDT Wed Oct 26 2022

High Impact Weather Potential...Minimal.

Extended (Saturday through Tuesday)...Saturday, the day and night 
continue to stay dry. However, the cut off low in the southern 
Mississippi valley begins to fill and move. The models have the 
center of the low in about the same place, but the GFS has filled 
much more than the ECMWF. In either case the rain remains well south 
and west of our region. Sunday, both models have a deep, but open 
wave that begins to lift toward the Upper Great Lakes. The day will 
remain dry, but high clouds will move in. It's not until Sunday 
night, when rain begins to threaten the SW counties. The ECMWF has 
rain moving into the N Lower between 06z/Mon and 12z/Mon. The GFS 
keeps it just south of M-55, and gets it into the SE counties by 
12z/Mon. Current NBM is for chance pops south and east of line from 
APN to CAD. Monday, There will be a chance for rain showers as the 
system moves toward the region, but also east as well. This looks to 
take the rain out of the region by Monday evening. Monday night ends 
up dry. Tuesday, Looks like it will turn out dry for now. However, 
the models are developing a system to the south and west of the 
region, which could cause some issues, as the models develop this 
scenario. 

&&

.AVIATION...(For the 12Z TAFS through 12Z Thursday morning)
Issued at 631 AM EDT Wed Oct 26 2022

IFR/MVFR conditions early this morning across northern Michigan 
as widespread rain continues in association with a slow-moving 
cold front crossing west to east. Rain exits west to east through 
the day with slow improvement to VFR later this afternoon into 
tonight. Northwest winds will continue to ramp up behind this 
system -- remaining gusty into this evening before diminishing. 


&&

.MARINE...
Issued at 316 AM EDT Wed Oct 26 2022

A slow moving cold front will continue to cross the area with 
widespread rainfall exiting from west to east throughout the day. 
Winds will continue to ramp up out of the northwest behind this 
system with solid Small Craft Advisory conditions area-wide into 
this evening. Perhaps a few gale gusts not out of the question in 
the Lake Huron nearshore waters south of Presque Isle Light, 
although better chances for more frequent gale gusts remain over the 
open waters. Winds diminish tonight with headline free conditions 


&&

.APX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
MI...NONE.
LH...Small Craft Advisory until 2 AM EDT Thursday for LHZ345-346-349.
     Small Craft Advisory until 5 AM EDT Thursday for LHZ347-348.
LM...Small Craft Advisory until 2 AM EDT Thursday for LMZ323-341-342-
     344>346.
LS...Small Craft Advisory until 2 AM EDT Thursday for LSZ321-322.
&&

$$

NEAR TERM...MJG
SHORT TERM...JSL
LONG TERM...JSL
AVIATION...MJG
MARINE...MJG
