495 
FXUS63 KAPX 261951
AFDAPX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Gaylord MI
351 PM EDT Wed Oct 26 2022

.NEAR TERM...(Through Tonight)
Issued at 303 PM EDT Wed Oct 26 2022

...Becoming Dry and Cooler...

High Impact Weather Potential...None.

Pattern Synopsis/Forecast...Showers from departing low are along
some of the Lake Huron coastal counties of northeast Lower
Michigan, but these will depart shortly. Otherwise, further north
and west, lake surface to 850 mb Delta Ts have increased to
12-15C resulting in some lake effect showers. The bands have been
having trouble getting organized due to diurnal effects. Do not
expect the lake effect to be long lived as high pressure builds
into the area, resulting in inversion heights continuing to fall
below 3500 feet and low-level flow trending westerly. Drying is
also evident upstream over the northwest 1/2 of Lake Superior. 
That being said, have extended a low chance for lake effect 
showers in favored northwest flow areas into mid-late evening.
Then, look for skies to clear and temperatures to fall into the 
upper 20s-lower 30s.

&&

.SHORT TERM...(Thursday through Friday Night)
Issued at 303 PM EDT Wed Oct 26 2022

High Impact Weather Potential: Minimal.

High pressure will continue to build overhead Thursday and begin to 
slowly move eastward. This will provide light winds Thursday night 
along with mostly clear skies, which may provide for optimal 
radiational cooling. Took this target of opportunity and lowered 
overnight low temperatures a few degrees...especially for the 
interior low lying areas. This high pressure will dominate northern 
Michigan's weather through the end of this forecast period and 
beyond providing some decent fall weather and giving northern 
Michiganders more time to do any outside work before winter weather 
decides to move in...for good. Winds will pick up in intensity a bit 
and become southerly Friday as the aforementioned center of high 
pressure moves to our east.

Temperatures will be near to slightly above normal for this time of 
the year...reaching near 50 Thursday and a bit warmer Friday with 
the southerly wind advecting some warmer temperatures, peaking in the 
mid to upper 50s.

&&

.LONG TERM...(Saturday through Wednesday)
Issued at 303 PM EDT Wed Oct 26 2022

A large ridge around the level of non divergence will expand from 
the Rocky Mountains to the Eastern Seaboard and will prohibit any 
precipitation Saturday amd Sunday. At the same time, a small low 
pressure sytem that formed from lee side cyclogenesis is deepening 
over Texas. 

Latest trends suggest that the low will diminish as it moves to the 
northeastern CONUS Monday. The remaining shortwave trough will cause 
scattered showers mainly in the mid to southern region of Michigan. 
After that, heights become relatively zonal and more high pressure 
influences the upper Great Lakes region Tuesday and Wednesday.

With this long stretch of precipitation-free weather,
temperatures are expected to continue to be above normal for this 
time of year.

&&

.AVIATION...(For the 18Z TAFS through 18Z Thursday afternoon)
Issued at 124 PM EDT Wed Oct 26 2022

Aviation weather conditions will continue to gradually improve
across northern Michigan during the 18Z TAF valid time. Most
locations are MVFR at this point as steady rains moved out of the
area (except at KAPN). Trapped moisture beneath a 3500 foot 
inversion, and lake effect contributions, will likely keep CIGs 
MVFR or low-end VFR well into tonight. Expect skies to scatter out
by late in the period as high pressure and associated dry low- 
level air move in. Gusty northwest winds will linger into this 
evening before diminishing and trending variable tonight/early 
Thursday as high pressure builds in.


&&

.MARINE...
Issued at 303 PM EDT Wed Oct 26 2022

Gusty northwest winds will linger through this evening, especially
over Lake Huron. The ongoing Small Craft Advisory conditions will
eventually fade by late tonight. Quiet weather is expected across
the northern Michigan nearshore area for the remainder of the
forecast period.

&&

.APX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
MI...NONE.
LH...Small Craft Advisory until 2 AM EDT Thursday for LHZ345-346-349.
     Small Craft Advisory until 5 AM EDT Thursday for LHZ347-348.
LM...Small Craft Advisory until 2 AM EDT Thursday for LMZ323-341-342-
     344>346.
LS...Small Craft Advisory until 2 AM EDT Thursday for LSZ321-322.
&&

$$

NEAR TERM...PBB
SHORT TERM...TJL
LONG TERM...SJC
AVIATION...PBB
MARINE...PBB
