589 
FXUS62 KMHX 261848
AFDMHX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Newport/Morehead City NC
248 PM EDT Wed Oct 26 2022

.SYNOPSIS...
A weak cold front with limited moisture will cross the area 
late tonight. High pressure builds in from the west again late 
week into the weekend. The next storm system will arrive early 
next week.

&&

.NEAR TERM /THROUGH TONIGHT/...
As of 230 PM Wed...Brief WAA will continue through this evening
ahead of a cold front. Clearing skies have allowed for a quick
warm up, with several spots reaching the mid to upper 70s, 
while upper 60s and low 70s remain across NE NC where cloud 
cover has been slower to dissipate.

Unfortunately increasing cloud cover is expected later this
afternoon and evening as the cold front pushes into the coastal
plain. Though there is limited moisture with this front, some
scattered showers can be expected as the front crosses the
region moving from west to east this evening/early tonight.
Behind the front, CAA will bring much cooler and drier air into
the area, with temps dropping into the mid to upper 50s 
overnight inland. Along the coast, low clouds will likely 
remain into tomorrow morning, keeping temps in the low to mid 
60s.

&&

.SHORT TERM /THURSDAY/...
As of 230 PM Wed...The cold front will stall off the NC coast
tomorrow, while high pressure builds in from the the northwest.
Cooler conditions are expected as low level heights fall, with
highs expected mostly in the upper 60s to low 70s. Expect cloudy
skies to persist through most of the day along the coast, with
the front just offshore, while partly to mostly sunny skies 
develop inland and over the coastal plain.

An increasing pressure gradient between the high building in 
and the front offshore will also lead to strengthening winds 
across the area, which will be strongest along the coast where 
winds could gust to 20-30 mph.

&&

.LONG TERM /THURSDAY NIGHT THROUGH WEDNESDAY/...
As of 230 PM Wednesday...Strong ridge of high pressure to our 
north will interact with a broad offshore low that will remain 
relatively stationary through the weekend. This will tighten the
pressure gradient even more and increase windy N-NE'rly 
conditions along the OBX and coastal areas Friday into Saturday.
Guidance also showing persistent onshore NErly flow will result
in increasing cloud coverage Friday with a chc for some light 
drizzle or showers along the coast through Saturday. Continued 
tweaks will be possible in the coming days depending on forecast
trends. Cooler temps are forecast on Friday and Saturday as 
well with aftn high temps in the upper 60s both days. Could 
start seeing high pressure shift north and east on Sunday as 
another low pressure system across the south central US inches 
towards the southern MS River Valley. Still expecting a mostly 
dry day Sunday at the moment, but precip chances will begin to 
inc Sunday night and into Monday once high pressure retreats 
northward with one low pressure system moving north across 
Appalachia and the second low meandering off the Southeast 
coastline. Precip chances linger into Tuesday before both 
systems eventually push out of the region sometime late Tue into
Tue night.

&&

.AVIATION /18Z WEDNESDAY THROUGH MONDAY/...
SHORT TERM /through Thursday Afternoon/...
As of 230 PM Wed...VFR conditions have returned to the area as 
skies continue to clear early this afternoon. However this is 
not expected to last long as a cold front moves into the area 
this evening and passes through overnight. MVFR level ceilings 
are expected to develop along and ahead of the front this 
evening from west to east, and persist into the overnight hours.
By early tomorrow morning VFR conditions should return over the
coastal plain as dry air moves in, however MVFR conditions may 
linger along the coast for much of tomorrow morning, including 
KEWN.

LONG TERM /Thursday Night through Monday/...
As of 230 PM Wednesday...High pressure builds in behind the 
front Thu N through Sat with VFR conditions prevailing. Gusty 
NNE winds 20-30 kts will impact the OBX airspace beginning Thu 
and into Sat night before beginning to diminish Sun.

&&

.MARINE...
SHORT TERM /through Tomorrow/...
As of 230 PM Wed...Small craft advisories are in place to go
into effect tomorrow morning behind a cold front for all zones
except the Pamlico and Pungo Rivers.

Ahead of this front winds have become SSW 5-15 kts, while seas 
remain 2-4 ft. Early tomorrow morning as the front crosses the
coastal waters, winds will turn to the N and increase to 15-25
kts, while seas increase to 5-7 ft. Winds will continue to
increase the rest of tomorrow as the pressure gradient 
strengthens between the front stalling offshore and high 
pressure building in from the northwest. Expect winds to be NNE 
25-30 kts with gusts 30-35 kts by late tomorrow, with seas 
increasing to 6-8 ft.

LONG TERM /Thursday Night through Monday/...
As of 230 PM Wednesday...SCA continue for coastal waters and 
major rivers & sounds through most of the weekend. Winds could 
relax slightly Thu night before ramping up again on Friday as an
offshore low keeps a tight pressure gradient against high 
pressure across the area, maintaining SCA criteria Friday and 
into Saturday. Seas will steadily build to 5-7 ft Friday and 5-9
ft by Saturday. Winds begin to ramp down late Sat night into 
Sunday, diminishing to 15-20 kts by Sunday night, though seas 
will be slower to respond, remaining at 4-8 ft late Sunday.

&&

.MHX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
NC...None.
MARINE...Small Craft Advisory from 7 AM Thursday to 3 AM EDT Sunday for 
     AMZ131-230-231.
     Small Craft Advisory from 7 AM Thursday to 8 AM EDT Sunday for 
     AMZ135.
     Small Craft Advisory from 5 PM Thursday to 2 AM EDT Saturday 
     for AMZ137.
     Small Craft Advisory from 5 AM Thursday to 2 PM EDT Sunday for 
     AMZ150.
     Small Craft Advisory from 7 AM Thursday to 2 PM EDT Sunday for 
     AMZ152-154-156-158.

&&

$$
SYNOPSIS...MHX
NEAR TERM...SGK
SHORT TERM...SGK
LONG TERM...ML
AVIATION...SGK/ML
MARINE...SGK/ML
