545 
FXUS62 KMHX 260138
AFDMHX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Newport/Morehead City NC
938 PM EDT Tue Oct 25 2022

.SYNOPSIS...
High pressure over the region shifts offshore tonight. A weak 
cold front with limited moisture will cross the area Wednesday 
night. High pressure builds in from the west again late week 
into the weekend.

&&

.NEAR TERM /OVERNIGHT/... 
As of 940 PM Tue...Widespread low stratus continues to plague 
the area under the subsidence inversion, with high pressure 
sliding offshore. Main concern overnight will again be potential
for areas of dense fog with similar set up to last night, with 
plentiful low level moisture and light NNE flow. Several obs 
along the Outer Banks and NE coastal counties already reporting 
vsbys 1/4 mile or less, so will go ahead with DFA for there. 
Will monitor and the DFA may need to be expanded further W/S 
later though may be complicated by increasing high clouds from 
the west. Lows generally falling into the mid 50s well inland 
and upper 50s to low 60s along the coast.

&&

.SHORT TERM /WEDNESDAY/... 
As of 630 PM Tue...The high pressure shifts east of the area on
Wednesday, with a weak surface front moving through the region 
Wed aftn and evening. By the time it reaches eastern NC, 
moisture will be greatly diminished along the front. Will throw 
in a slight chance of showers across the far north Wed 
afternoon/evening as moisture is slightly better in that region,
but otherwise it should be a mostly dry frontal passage. Behind
the front, high pressure builds once again into the area with 
the flow quickly becoming northeasterly onshore flow by Thu 
night with clouds on the increase from north to south. Friday 
will generally see cloudy conditions across the entire region as
the wedge builds across eastern NC again. Low cigs and areas of
fog early Wed morning should dissipate by late morning, 
allowing for increased sunshine and temps to warm into the 70s, 
maybe approaching 80 across the inland sw sections.

&&

.LONG TERM /WEDNESDAY NIGHT THROUGH TUESDAY/...
As of 300 PM Tuesday...The weekend looks to be cloudy and 
seasonably cool  as high pressure centered over New England and
low pressure well east of the SE coastline leading to 
persistent NE onshore flow. This will allow for clouds and 
patchy showers/drizzle (especially at the coast) through early 
next week. Will maintain slight chance or low chance pops 
through the weekend close to the coast but will simply include 
patchy drizzle through the weekend given the low level setup. 
Otherwise, the next weak frontal boundary is expected to 
approach the area late in the weekend, or Monday, with a chance 
for showers across the entire region. NBM suggests a dry 
Tuesday, although the GFS suggests an overall slower solution 
with the front. Will confine slight chance PoPs on Tuesday to 
areas closer to the coast but this may need to be refined in 
future forecasts depending on the evolution of the front. 

After at or slightly below normal temps on Saturday and Sunday,
temps rebound to near or slightly above normal for 
Monday/Tuesday. Highs on Saturday/Sunday generally in the upper 
60s to around 70, then low to mid 70s Mon/Tue. Coolest values 
will be the northern Outer Banks with persistent NE flow off the
water.

&&

.AVIATION /02Z WEDNESDAY THROUGH SUNDAY/...
SHORT TERM /through Wednesday/... 
As of 630 PM Tue...Mix of VFR and IFR across the terminals early
this evening. High confidence in widespread low clouds and areas
of dense fog again overnight into Wed morning, with plentiful
low level moisture and light N/NE flow. Some sites may reach
airport minimums early Wed morning. Cigs/Vsbys should be grad
improving after 14/15z with better mixing than today, with VFR
returning by early afternoon ahead of an approaching cold front. 

LONG TERM /Wednesday night through Sunday/... 
As of 315 AM Tuesday...Weak cold front washes out across the 
region Wed into early Thu with little impacts expected to 
terminals. High pressure builds back in Thu through Sat with VFR
conditions prevailing. NE flow will increase into the weekend 
as a tight pressure gradient develops across the FA. Gusty winds
across OBX airspace around 20 kts Thu will inc to over 25 kts 
by Sat.

&&

.MARINE...
SHORT TERM /through Wednesday/... 
As of 940 PM Tue...Latest obs show N/NE winds 5-15 kt with seas
2-4 ft, locally up to 5 ft near the Gulf Stream. An area of low
pressure persisted well offshore the SC coast with a weak high 
pressure ridging south across the Delmarva and into NE NC. This 
pattern persists overnight with N winds becoming NE around 10 kt
(or less). Seas will average between 2 to 3 ft overnight and 
waves of the sounds flat to just a light chop. 

Areas of dense fog (vsybs 1 nm or less) expected again tonight 
into Wednesday morning, so will go ahead with Marine Dense Fog 
Advisories for the waters north Cape Lookout, sounds and 
rivers. Fog should dissipate by mid Wed morning. 

A cold front will approach the waters from the west Wed.
Light/Var winds 10 kt or less early, becoming S/SW 5-15 kt
during the afternoon with seas 2-4 ft.

LONG TERM /Wednesday night through Sunday/... 
As of 230 PM Tuesday...The cold front will approach the area 
Wed night pushing offshore by early Thu. Southwest winds will 
become Northwest then north around 15 to 20 kt. An offshore low 
will tighten the pressure gradient against high pressure across 
the area, increasing NE winds 20+ kts late Thu and into Fri with
gusts approaching small craft advisory criteria. Seas will 
start the around 2-4 ft Wednesday then increase late Thu into 
Fri up to 4- 5 ft. Seas of 4-6 ft are possible by late Friday as
the winds increase across the region in response to the 
offshore low. Winds and seas continue to build into Saturday and
into early Sunday with gusts exceeding 25 kts and seas surging 
to 6-8+ ft.

&&

.MHX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
NC...Dense Fog Advisory until 9 AM EDT Wednesday for NCZ045>047-081-
     203>205.
MARINE...Dense Fog Advisory until 11 AM EDT Wednesday for AMZ131-150-
     230-231.
     Dense Fog Advisory until 10 AM EDT Wednesday for AMZ135-152-
     154-156.
     Dense Fog Advisory from 2 AM to 10 AM EDT Wednesday for AMZ136-
     137.

&&

$$
SYNOPSIS...MHX
NEAR TERM...CQD/AKQ
SHORT TERM...AKQ
LONG TERM...ML 
AVIATION...CQD/ML 
MARINE...CQD/ML
