537 
FXUS62 KMHX 261421
AFDMHX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Newport/Morehead City NC
1021 AM EDT Wed Oct 26 2022

.SYNOPSIS...
High pressure over the region shifts offshore this morning. A 
weak cold front with limited moisture will cross the area 
late tonight. High pressure builds in from the west again late 
week into the weekend. The next storm system will arrive early
next week.

&&

.NEAR TERM /UNTIL 6 PM THIS EVENING/...
As of 1020 AM Wed...Widespread low stratus clouds along with 
areas of fog, locally dense, continues to plague the area under 
the subsidence inversion early this morning, as high pressure 
slides offshore. Will continue the DFA NE zones for widespread 
visibilities of 1/4 mile or less, elsewhere the dense fog is 
more patchy and have issued a SPS to alert for hazardous driving
conditions for this mornings commute. The fog is expected to 
dissipate by around noon. 

As the high shifts eastward, the low level flow will become
southerly and this should help to scour out the low level
moisture, dissipating the persistent low cloud deck by noon. 
Moisture with the approaching cold front will be limited but 
with diurnal heating think we could see a few showers develop 
over the coastal plain late so will maintain slight chance PoPs 
mainly west of Highway 17 late. The southerly flow will help to 
produce warm highs today once the clouds diminish with highs of 
75-80 degrees.

&&

.SHORT TERM /6 PM THIS EVENING THROUGH 6 AM THURSDAY/...
As of 630 AM Wed...The aforementioned cold front will be over 
the coastal plain this evening, moving off of the coast by dawn 
followed by a northerly flow of cooler, drier air as high 
pressure builds in. Will include a slight chance evening PoP 
western/central zones with the frontal passage in region of 
deeper moisture. Lows will be in the mid to upper 50s inland and
around 60 coast.

&&

.LONG TERM /THURSDAY THROUGH TUESDAY/...
As of 305 AM Wednesday...High pressure builds in from the north
behind the front Thursday, dropping temps back into the low 70s
and resulting in a Nrly surge of winds, especially along the 
coast. This strong ridge of high pressure to our north then 
begins to interact with a broad offshore low that will remain 
relatively stationary through the weekend. This will tighten the
pressure gradient even more and increase windy N-NE'rly 
conditions along the OBX and coastal areas Friday into Saturday.
Guidance also showing persistent onshore NErly flow will result
in increasing cloud coverage Friday with a chc for some light 
drizzle or showers along the coast through Saturday. Continued 
tweaks will be possible in the coming days depending on forecast
trends. Cooler temps are forecast on Friday and Saturday as 
well with aftn high temps in the upper 60s both days. Could 
start seeing high pressure shift north and east on Sunday as 
another low pressure system across the south central US inches 
towards the southern MS River Valley. Still expecting a mostly 
dry day Sunday at the moment, but precip chances will begin to 
inc Sunday night and into Monday once high pressure retreats 
northward with one low pressure system moving north across 
Appalachia and the second low meandering off the Southeast 
coastline. Precip chances linger into Tuesday before both 
systems eventually push out of the region sometime late Tue into
Tue night.

&&

.AVIATION /14Z WEDNESDAY THROUGH SUNDAY/...
SHORT TERM /through Tonight/...
As of 1030 AM Wed...LIFR conditions prevail in fog and stratus 
early this morning with some of the TAF sites reaching airport 
minimums. Cigs/Vsbys will be grad improving after 17z with 
better mixing than yesterday, with VFR returning early this
afternoon ahead of an approaching cold front. Could see a stray
shower or two late today and this evening ahead of the cold 
front, otherwise VFR conditions to continue tonight.

LONG TERM /Thursday through Sunday/...
As of 310 AM Wednesday...High pressure builds in behind the 
front Thu through Sat with VFR conditions prevailing. Gusty NNE 
winds 20-30 kts will impact the OBX airspace beginning Thu and 
into Sat night before beginning to diminish Sun.

&&

.MARINE...
SHORT TERM /through Tonight/...
As of 630 AM Wed...High pressure will move offshore this 
morning, then a cold front will approach the area late today. 
The front will cross the waters early Thu followed by high 
pressure. Today NW/N winds 5-15 kt will become S/SW in the 
afternoon. Winds will shift to N 15-20 kt late tonight behind 
the front. Seas 2-4 ft today will become 3-5 ft late tonight in 
the stronger post frontal northerly flow. 

Areas of dense fog (vsybs 1 nm or less) will occur through late
this morning, so will continue with the Marine Dense Fog 
Advisories for the waters north Cape Lookout, sounds and rivers.

LONG TERM /Thursday through Sunday/...
As of 315 AM Wednesday...High pressure builds in from the north
behind the frontal boundary, but southwest winds will surge 
from the N to NE with gusts as high as 25-30 kts. SCA raised for
coastal waters and major rivers & sounds. Winds could relax 
slightly Thu night before ramping up again on Friday as an 
offshore low keeps a tight pressure gradient against high 
pressure across the area, maintaining SCA criteria Friday and 
into Saturday. Seas will steadily build from 4-6 ft Thu to 5-7 
ft Friday and 5-9 ft by Saturday. Winds begin to ramp down late 
Sat night into Sunday, diminishing to 15-20 kts by Sunday night,
though seas will be slower to respond, remaining at 4-8 ft late
Sunday.

&&

.MHX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
NC...Dense Fog Advisory until 11 AM EDT this morning for NCZ045>047-
     081.
MARINE...Dense Fog Advisory until noon EDT today for AMZ131-135>137-150-
     230-231.
     Small Craft Advisory from 10 AM Thursday to 3 AM EDT Sunday 
     for AMZ131-230-231.
     Small Craft Advisory from 7 AM Thursday to 3 AM EDT Sunday for 
     AMZ135-150-152-154-156-158.
     Small Craft Advisory from 5 PM to 11 PM EDT Thursday for 
     AMZ137.

&&

$$
SYNOPSIS...MHX
NEAR TERM...JME/SGK
SHORT TERM...JME
LONG TERM...ML
AVIATION...JME/ML
MARINE...JME/ML
