481 
FXUS62 KJAX 262116
AFDJAX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Jacksonville FL
516 PM EDT Wed Oct 26 2022

...STRENGTHENING NORTHEASTERLY WINDS EXPECTED AT COASTAL LOCATIONS
BEGINNING ON THURSDAY AFTERNOON...
...HIGH RISK OF DANGEROUS RIP CURRENTS EXPECTED AT AREA BEACHES
FROM FRIDAY THROUGH THE WEEKEND...
...HAZARDOUS MARINE CONDITIONS EXPECTED FROM FRIDAY THROUGH THE 
WEEKEND WITH MINOR COASTAL FLOODING POSSIBLE ON SATURDAY...

.SYNOPSIS...
Issued at 515 PM EDT Wed Oct 26 2022

Late afternoon surface analysis depicts a weak cold front stretching
from the southeast GA coast southwestward to the FL Big Bend.
Meanwhile, high pressure (1022 millibars) was building from the 
Upper Midwest southward through the lower Mississippi Valley.
Aloft...zonal flow prevails throughout the southern tier of the
nation as a filling shortwave trough accelerates northeastward
through the Great Lakes region. Otherwise, a potent shortwave
trough was pivoting across the northern Rockies. Only isolated,
low-topped convection was developing just ahead of the weakening
cold front across inland northeast FL, while a drier air mass was
quickly filtering into southeast GA and the northern Suwannee 
Valley in the wake of the frontal passage, resulting in clearing 
skies. Temperatures at 21Z were still in the 80-85 degree range, 
but dewpoints were falling through the lower 50s for locations to 
the northwest of Waycross as the drier air mass advects into our 
area. Values elsewhere were in the 65-70 range along and ahead of 
the frontal boundary. 

&&

.NEAR TERM...
(Through Tonight)
Issued at 515 PM EDT Wed Oct 26 2022

Isolated, low-topped convection along and ahead of the weakening
cold front will move offshore of the northeast FL coast before
midnight as this boundary slows its southeastward progress due to
little in the way of support aloft within the zonal flow pattern.
Low stratus and possibly some locally dense fog may advect off the
Gulf of Mexico across north central FL overnight, but this cloud
cover and fog should dissipate towards sunrise as the front limps
towards the Interstate 4 corridor. The drier air mass currently
over southeast GA and the northern Suwannee Valley will advect
across the I-10 corridor overnight, where skies will likely clear
out towards midnight. Cloudiness will tend to linger for locations
south of a line from Gainesville to St. Augustine through around
sunrise. Low level winds will veer from northwesterly to northerly
overnight in the wake of the frontal passage, with weak cool air
advection dropping lows to around 50 for locations northwest of
Waycross, with mid 50s expected elsewhere inland from the I-10
corridor northward. Lows will likely remain in the low to mid 60s
overnight for north central and coastal northeast FL.

&&

.SHORT TERM...
(Thursday through Friday night)
Issued at 515 PM EDT Wed Oct 26 2022

High pressure will strengthen as it migrates from the Upper
Midwest eastward across the Great Lakes region, with the frontal
boundary that is currently passing through our area stalling just
south of the I-4 corridor in the FL peninsula on Thursday and
Thursday night. Our local pressure gradient will tighten from
north to south as strengthening high pressure wedges down the
southeastern seaboard on Thursday afternoon, resulting in a
sharpening coastal trough initially positioned over the Gulf
Stream waters on Thursday night. This trough will then shift
westward towards our Atlantic coast on Friday and Friday night,
resulting at least scattered showers, with some convective
development also possible over our local waters as well.
The northeasterly wind surge will arrive over coastal southeast GA
by the noon hour on Thursday, accompanied by increasing marine
stratocumulus that will push south and southwestward across
northeast and north central FL by the late afternoon hours. Breezy
onshore winds will keep coastal highs on the mid to upper 70s on
Thursday, with lower 80s expected for locations along and west of
the U.S. Highway 301 corridor, and possibly mid 80s across north
central FL and the southern Suwannee Valley. Isentropic lift will
also begin to strengthen closer to the stalling frontal boundary
on Thursday afternoon, possibly generating a few showers for north
central FL. 

Our local pressure gradient will continue to tighten on Thursday
night and Friday, and the sharpening coastal trough will likely
advect at least scattered showers onshore all along the I-95
corridor. Lows will remain in the 60s along the coast on both
Thursday and Friday nights, with mid to upper 50s forecast within
a lingering drier air mass across inland southeast GA and the
northern Suwannee Valley. 

Windy conditions are expected at coastal locations by the predawn
hours on Friday, with gusts increasing to the 30-35 mph range at 
area beaches. Water levels will increase as strong northeasterly 
winds set in, and minor coastal flooding may be possible around 
times of high tide by Friday night and Saturday, including 
locations within the St. Johns River basin (see Hydrology / 
Coastal Flooding section below for details). Cloudy skies and 
gusty northeasterly winds will keep coastal highs on Friday 
generally in the 70-75 degree range, while breezy conditions 
developing at inland locations on Friday afternoon keep highs in 
the upper 70s to around 80, except lower 80s for north central FL.

&&

.LONG TERM...
(Saturday through Tuesday Night) 
Issued at 515 PM EDT Wed Oct 26 2022

A potent shortwave trough diving southeastward across the Rockies
on Thursday will pivot eastward across Texas on Saturday and will
then fill as it lifts northeastward across the lower Mississippi
and Tennessee Valleys on Saturday night and Sunday. Mainly zonal
flow will continue across our area through the weekend, but this
shortwave trough will help lift the stalled frontal boundary over
the FL peninsula on Friday northward as a warm front during the
weekend. 

Strong surface ridging will reach New England and the Mid-Atlantic
coast on Saturday and will then weaken as it slides offshore on
Sunday. Isentropic lift will strengthen slightly as the
aforementioned front lifts northward, which may generate at least
isolated showers at inland locations on Saturday and Saturday
night, with activity possibly increasing in coverage somewhat by
Sunday across southeast GA. The main weather impacts will continue
to be at coastal locations, as our local pressure gradient remains
tight on Saturday, keeping windy conditions in place until the
late afternoon hours. Bands of scattered showers will continue to
occasionally advect onshore within this northeasterly flow
pattern through Saturday evening. Our local pressure gradient will
then loosen on Saturday night and Sunday as the warm front lifts
northward across the I-10 corridor and into southeast GA. Highs on
Saturday will generally remain in the 70-75 degree range at
coastal locations, with mid to upper 70s elsewhere, except lower
80s for north central FL and southern portions of the Suwannee
Valley. Warm air advection along and south of the lifting warm
front will keep lows on the 60s area-wide on Saturday night. Highs
on Sunday will then climb to the upper 70s and lower 80s, except
mid 80s in north central FL as winds decrease and veer to an east
and then southeasterly direction.

West-southwesterly flow aloft will remain in place early next week
downstream of another digging trough that will progress eastward
across the Tennessee Valley and the Carolinas. This weather
pattern should propel a weak cold front across our area on
Halloween, and this front will again have little in the way of
support aloft, resulting in only isolated, low-topped convection
developing on Monday afternoon, mainly along the I-95 corridor. A
drier air mass should then advect into our region by Monday night
and especially Tuesday. Highs are expected to climb to the 80-85
degree range early next week, with the drier air mass then
resulting in cooler overnight lows by Tuesday night as weak
surface ridging builds over the southeastern states. 

&&

.AVIATION...
(18Z TAFS)
Issued at 113 PM EDT Wed Oct 26 2022

Some brief MVFR CIGS are occurring ahead of the frontal boundary
in conjunction with some of the light showers/sprinkles pushing
across the region. Have added these to all TAF sites over the next
couple of hours with some brief wind gusts expected at GNV/SGJ as
enough instability has kicked off some heavier showers with some
potential for MVFR VSBYS as well. Otherwise mainly SW flow around
10 knots with mainly VFR conds. Not a very sharp wind shift with
the frontal boundary as it passes through, just expect winds to
become more light out of the W-SW towards sunset and clouds to
become more FEW-SCT in the 22-02Z time frame, then just a few high
clouds during the evening hours from 02-04Z as light NW to N winds
set up and drier airmass slowly seeps in from the North. Still
light enough winds to allow for some brief sunrise fog at GNV/VQQ,
otherwise main story for late in the TAF period (12-18Z) is the
increase in N-NE winds and some lower level strato-cu clouds to
push inland off the Atlantic and impact SGJ/CRG with possible MVFR
CIGS, but probs still too low to include these that far out in
time.

&&

.MARINE...
Issued at 515 PM EDT Wed Oct 26 2022

A weak cold front will cross our local waters this evening,
accompanied by isolated showers and possibly a thunderstorm. This
front will stall across the Florida peninsula on Thursday as high
pressure strengthens over the eastern Great Lakes and begins to
wedge down the southeastern seaboard. Northeasterly winds will
increase by Thursday afternoon across the Georgia waters, with
these stronger winds reaching the northeast Florida waters by
Thursday night and early Friday. Small Craft Advisory conditions
are expected across the Georgia waters by Friday morning, with
strong northeasterly winds then overspreading the northeast
Florida waters north of St. Augustine by Friday afternoon. Seas
will build to the 4-6 foot range by Friday across the southeast GA
waters and will peak in the 5-7 foot range during the weekend.
Caution level seas will overspread the northeast FL waters on
Friday and Friday night, with seas peaking in the 5-7 foot range
from Saturday evening through Sunday night. 

Coastal troughing will develop over the near shore waters on 
Friday, resulting in scattered showers and isolated thunderstorms.
The stalled front over the Florida peninsula will then lift 
northward as a warm front on Saturday night and Sunday, resulting 
in winds shifting to easterly and then southerly by late in the 
weekend, with gradually diminishing speeds and seas expected. Seas
should fall back to Caution levels on Monday throughout our local
waters, with subsiding seas continuing on Monday night and
Tuesday. A weakening cold front will then push across our local 
waters on Monday night, with winds shifting to westerly following 
its passage. 

Rip Current Risk: Strengthening northeasterly winds will promote a
moderate rip current risk at all area beaches on Thursday. A high
risk of dangerous rip currents and rough surf is then expected at
all area beaches from Friday through Sunday, with breaker heights
building to 4-6 feet at the northeast FL beaches by the weekend. 

&&

.FIRE WEATHER...
Issued at 515 PM EDT Wed Oct 26 2022

Isolated to widely scattered showers are possible along the
Interstate 10 corridor through early this evening. A drier air 
mass will briefly filter into inland southeast Georgia and the 
Suwannee Valley on Thursday, where minimum relative humidity 
values will fall to the 35-40 percent range during the afternoon 
hours. Otherwise, isolated showers will be possible across north 
central Florida on Thursday afternoon, followed by gradually 
increasing chances for showers for locations along and east of 
I-95 on Friday. Surface and transport winds will shift to 
northerly overnight and northeasterly on Thursday, with breezy 
conditions developing at coastal locations during the afternoon 
hours. Generally poor to fair daytime dispersion values are 
expected area-wide on Thursday. Breezy northeasterly surface and 
transport winds will then spread inland by Friday afternoon, with 
windy conditions developing at coastal locations. Increasing cloud
cover will keep daytime dispersion values mostly in the fair 
range on Friday. Breezy northeasterly surface and transport winds 
will persist into Saturday, with scattered showers expected along 
the I-95 corridor. 

&&

.HYDROLOGY/COASTAL FLOODING... 
Issued at 515 PM EDT Wed Oct 26 2022

Strengthening onshore winds will coincide with lunar perigee from
Friday through the weekend, resulting in at least minor coastal
flooding during times of high tide along the Atlantic coast and
possibly within the St. Johns River basin. Latest extratropical
surge guidance suggests that water levels may peak in at 1.5 - 2.0
feet above mean higher high water (MHHW) during the high tide
cycles on Saturday and Saturday night. Guidance is a closer to the
1.5 foot range within the St. Johns River basin during this time
frame, extending into Sunday before winds shift to a more
southerly direction and weaken. Coastal Flood Advisories will
likely be required from Friday night through at least early
Sunday, and we will closely monitor guidance for a possible
Coastal Flood Watch later this week as this event's details come
into focus.

&&

.PRELIMINARY POINT TEMPS/POPS...
AMG  50  80  55  76 /   0  10  10  10 
SSI  61  76  63  70 /  10  10  20  20 
JAX  56  80  60  75 /  20  10  10  20 
SGJ  64  79  66  76 /  20  10  10  40 
GNV  58  83  62  80 /  10  20  10  10 
OCF  61  83  64  82 /  10  20  20  20 

&&

.JAX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
FL...None.
GA...None.
AM...None.
&&

$$
