152 
FXUS62 KJAX 260713
AFDJAX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Jacksonville FL
313 AM EDT Wed Oct 26 2022

...ISOLATED STORMS SOUTH OF I-10 THIS AFTERNOON...

.NEAR TERM...
Issued at 303 AM EDT Wed Oct 26 2022

Fog potential will be low again this morning due stronger near- 
surface winds and increasing multilayer clouds from the west. That
said, occasional ground fog across open areas/fields is possible 
through sunrise.

A cold front trailing across the Florida panhandle this morning 
will continue to press eastward while the parent trough continues 
lift northward toward the Great Lakes. With fading dynamic 
support, the boundary will weaken considerably as it reaches the 
far interior areas of southeast GA around sunrise. A lingering 
line of showers will persist along the front but shower coverage 
will decrease as the front shifts further east and into the 
Suwannee Valley and northeast FL later this morning. There should 
be enough daytime heating, amid upper 60s dewpoints, to promote 
low-grade destabilization this afternoon across northeast FL. 
Despite the decaying state of the front as it crosses the area, 
there will be enough instability to support a weak potential for 
isolated thunderstorms, mainly south of I- 10. Enhanced mixing 
amid the southwesterly, prefrontal flow will boost temps into the 
mid 80s across NE FL this afternoon. Meanwhile across the Suwannee
Valley and inland southeast GA, a cooler post-frontal will cap 
afternoon highs in the upper 70s to near 80s.

The front will slowly move southeast of the region and emerge into
the Atlantic early this evening with weak cool air advection 
trailing in its wake. Clouds will scatter out from NW to SE this 
evening allowing inland southeast GA temps to cool into the upper 
40s under clear skies while lingering cloudiness at the coast and 
across northeast FL hold lows in the in the upper 50s and low 60s.

&&

.SHORT TERM...
(Thursday through Friday night)
Issued at 303 AM EDT Wed Oct 26 2022

Thursday, high pressure will build north of the region with a 
weak shortwave within the zonal flow aloft bringing in cirrus 
clouds from the west by late in the afternoon, but otherwise 
mostly sunny skies. Drier northerly winds shifting northeasterly 
into the afternoon will limit highs to around 80 degrees over 
inland SE GA and the low 80s over inland NE FL with upper 70s at 
the coast due to NE onshore flow. 
  
Thursday night, stalling frontal boundary south of the area will 
linger over central FL as high pressure to the north begins to 
wedge down the eastern seaboard from southern Quebec/Upstate New 
York with light NE winds increasing along the SE GA coast towards 
sunrise. Moisture creeping back over the area from the south and 
east will yield partly cloudy skies. Lows will be milder in the 
upper 50s over inland SE GA, low 60s over inland NE FL, mid 60s at
the SE GA coast, with mid to upper 60s at the NE FL coast. 

Friday, the high to the north will wedge further south into our 
area and create breezy conditions over the area, especially at the
coast with winds increasing to 15-20 mph gusting to 25-30 mph 
This strengthening onshore flow will help to transition the old 
stalled frontal boundary over central FL into a coastal trough as 
it lifts slowly back north. Some convergent bands of showers will 
move onshore during the afternoon hours into evening. Highs will 
be cooler than average in the mid 70s at the SE GA coast as mostly
cloudy skies and occasional showers limit sunshine with upper 70s
farther inland and warmer across NE FL into the low 80s, mid 80s 
over north central FL, and the upper 70s over he NE FL coast. 

Friday night, skies will become mostly cloudy over most of the 
area except for southern and western portion of NE FL farther away
from the coastal trough due to the drier trajectory of winds. 
Isolated showers will move onshore along the coast which will keep
lows milder in the onshore flow off the Atlantic coast in the 
65-70 degree range while cooler inland in the upper 50s over SE GA
and the low 60s over NE FL. 

&&

.LONG TERM...
(Saturday through Tuesday)
Issued at 303 AM EDT Wed Oct 26 2022

A closed mid to upper level trough will shift east into the mid 
south Saturday with a surface low moving through the ArkLaMiss 
region bringing heavy rain to the lower MS valley. The mid to 
upper level support will open up and weaken, lifting NNE and 
causing the surface low to occlude as it moves north along the MS 
river from Vicksburg to Memphis to Cape Giradeau Sunday evening 
with an attached cold front extending south to the gulf coast 
sliding slowly eastward along the central gulf coast into the FL 
panhandle. 

Meanwhile, over our area, winds from the NE will continue with 
convergent showers moving in from the Atlantic between high 
pressure to the NNE and the coastal trough to the east over our 
coastal waters. As the high to the north moves into the western 
Atlantic waters well NE of the region and the cold front 
approaches from the west on Sunday, winds will become easterly 
with increasing moisture over the entire area as warm air 
advection bumps up highs from the upper 70s Saturday into the low 
80s Sunday over much of the area. This will also bring the 
potential for a few storms into Monday as the cold front finally 
enters the area from the west with winds turning southwesterly 
prior to frontal passage before drier air and westerly winds 
behind the front arrive Tuesday morning as weak high pressure 
builds in from the west and delivers drier conditions. 

High temperatures will remain slightly below normal Saturday, 
then resume to near normal Sunday through Tuesday with near to 
slightly above normal overnight lows throughout the period.

&&

.AVIATION...
(06Z TAFS)
Issued at 129 AM EDT Wed Oct 26 2022

VFR conditions are expected through the majority of the period as
a decaying and slowing cold front presses west to east across the
area today. Multilayered cloud cover is expected but ceilings are
expected at or above 3-4 kft. Low chances for rain/storms;
however, continued a mention of vicinity showers as the frontal 
boundary moves through area terminals. Winds will trend 
southwesterly through the day and feature gusts around 12-17 kts 
during between 16-22z. The frontal wind shift will turn winds WNW 
and then NW this evening, roughly between 23-04z, while clouds 
scatter out.

&&

.MARINE...
Issued at 303 AM EDT Wed Oct 26 2022

A weakening cold front will approach from the west today and 
slowly drift southeastward into the local waters this evening. 
Southerly winds this morning will turn offshore this afternoon as
the front nears. High pressure will wedge along the Atlantic 
coast behind the front Thursday. The high will strengthen through
Friday while a coastal trough develops offshore along the remnant
front. A northeasterly wind surge will develop between those 
features and result in Exercise Caution conditions Friday. A long 
fetch of prolonged northeast winds will build seas to hazardous 
levels offshore through the weekend. Seas will lower by early 
next week as another front approaches from the west.

Rip Current Risk: Low risk under offshore flow regime Today. An 
onshore swell and increasing northeasterly winds will result in a 
Moderate risk on Thursday.

&&

.PRELIMINARY POINT TEMPS/POPS...
AMG  81  49  80  58 /  30   0   0  10 
SSI  81  60  75  64 /  20  10  10  10 
JAX  84  56  79  63 /  20  10  10  10 
SGJ  83  64  79  66 /  20  10  10  10 
GNV  83  57  83  63 /  20   0  10   0 
OCF  84  60  83  63 /  30  10  10   0 

&&

.JAX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
FL...None.
GA...None.
AM...None.
&&

$$
