514 
FXUS62 KJAX 261721
AFDJAX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Jacksonville FL
121 PM EDT Wed Oct 26 2022

...New AVIATION...

.UPDATE...
Issued at 830 AM EDT Wed Oct 26 2022

Forecast remains on track as weakening frontal boundary to push
through slowly today, with scattered showers and isolated storms
possible, mainly across NE FL south of the I-10 corridor. Pre-
frontal SW winds at 10-15G20-25 mph should still be able to push
Max Temps into the lower 80s for SE GA and the Suwannee Valley of
inland North FL, while middle 80s expected for the rest of NE FL
all the way to the Atlantic Beaches. Rainfall amounts will
generally be light, and severe weather threat remains low with
just a few gusty winds of 30-40 mph with heavy showers/isolated
storms across NE FL this afternoon. Front sags slowly through the
coastal NE FL counties this evening with just a slight chance of a
lingering shower or storm, then into the coastal waters as winds
become north and remain in the 5-10 mph through the overnight
hours and this should keep any fog formation to a minimum. Lows
will fall to around 50 across inland SE GA and range upwards to
the lower 60s along the Atlantic Coast/St Johns River Basin.

Elevated water levels will continue on the St Johns River Basin
through the next high tide cycle, just below Minor Flood criteria
throughout the basin into Tonight. As surface flow becomes
Northeast on Thursday/Friday will need to monitor for possibly
higher levels during high tide along the Atlantic Coast and St
Johns River Basin.

&&

.NEAR TERM...
Issued at 303 AM EDT Wed Oct 26 2022

Fog potential will be low again this morning due stronger near- 
surface winds and increasing multilayer clouds from the west. That
said, occasional ground fog across open areas/fields is possible 
through sunrise.

A cold front trailing across the Florida panhandle this morning 
will continue to press eastward while the parent trough continues 
lift northward toward the Great Lakes. With fading dynamic 
support, the boundary will weaken considerably as it reaches the 
far interior areas of southeast GA around sunrise. A lingering 
line of showers will persist along the front but shower coverage 
will decrease as the front shifts further east and into the 
Suwannee Valley and northeast FL later this morning. There should 
be enough daytime heating, amid upper 60s dewpoints, to promote 
low-grade destabilization this afternoon across northeast FL. 
Despite the decaying state of the front as it crosses the area, 
there will be enough instability to support a weak potential for 
isolated thunderstorms, mainly south of I- 10. Enhanced mixing 
amid the southwesterly, prefrontal flow will boost temps into the 
mid 80s across NE FL this afternoon. Meanwhile across the Suwannee
Valley and inland southeast GA, a cooler post-frontal will cap 
afternoon highs in the upper 70s to near 80s.

The front will slowly move southeast of the region and emerge into
the Atlantic early this evening with weak cool air advection 
trailing in its wake. Clouds will scatter out from NW to SE this 
evening allowing inland southeast GA temps to cool into the upper 
40s under clear skies while lingering cloudiness at the coast and 
across northeast FL hold lows in the in the upper 50s and low 60s.

&&

.SHORT TERM...
(Thursday through Friday night)
Issued at 303 AM EDT Wed Oct 26 2022

Thursday, high pressure will build north of the region with a 
weak shortwave within the zonal flow aloft bringing in cirrus 
clouds from the west by late in the afternoon, but otherwise 
mostly sunny skies. Drier northerly winds shifting northeasterly 
into the afternoon will limit highs to around 80 degrees over 
inland SE GA and the low 80s over inland NE FL with upper 70s at 
the coast due to NE onshore flow. 
  
Thursday night, stalling frontal boundary south of the area will 
linger over central FL as high pressure to the north begins to 
wedge down the eastern seaboard from southern Quebec/Upstate New 
York with light NE winds increasing along the SE GA coast towards 
sunrise. Moisture creeping back over the area from the south and 
east will yield partly cloudy skies. Lows will be milder in the 
upper 50s over inland SE GA, low 60s over inland NE FL, mid 60s at
the SE GA coast, with mid to upper 60s at the NE FL coast. 

Friday, the high to the north will wedge further south into our 
area and create breezy conditions over the area, especially at the
coast with winds increasing to 15-20 mph gusting to 25-30 mph 
This strengthening onshore flow will help to transition the old 
stalled frontal boundary over central FL into a coastal trough as 
it lifts slowly back north. Some convergent bands of showers will 
move onshore during the afternoon hours into evening. Highs will 
be cooler than average in the mid 70s at the SE GA coast as mostly
cloudy skies and occasional showers limit sunshine with upper 70s
farther inland and warmer across NE FL into the low 80s, mid 80s 
over north central FL, and the upper 70s over he NE FL coast. 

Friday night, skies will become mostly cloudy over most of the 
area except for southern and western portion of NE FL farther away
from the coastal trough due to the drier trajectory of winds. 
Isolated showers will move onshore along the coast which will keep
lows milder in the onshore flow off the Atlantic coast in the 
65-70 degree range while cooler inland in the upper 50s over SE GA
and the low 60s over NE FL. 

&&

.LONG TERM...
(Saturday through Tuesday)
Issued at 303 AM EDT Wed Oct 26 2022

A closed mid to upper level trough will shift east into the mid 
south Saturday with a surface low moving through the ArkLaMiss 
region bringing heavy rain to the lower MS valley. The mid to 
upper level support will open up and weaken, lifting NNE and 
causing the surface low to occlude as it moves north along the MS 
river from Vicksburg to Memphis to Cape Giradeau Sunday evening 
with an attached cold front extending south to the gulf coast 
sliding slowly eastward along the central gulf coast into the FL 
panhandle. 

Meanwhile, over our area, winds from the NE will continue with 
convergent showers moving in from the Atlantic between high 
pressure to the NNE and the coastal trough to the east over our 
coastal waters. As the high to the north moves into the western 
Atlantic waters well NE of the region and the cold front 
approaches from the west on Sunday, winds will become easterly 
with increasing moisture over the entire area as warm air 
advection bumps up highs from the upper 70s Saturday into the low 
80s Sunday over much of the area. This will also bring the 
potential for a few storms into Monday as the cold front finally 
enters the area from the west with winds turning southwesterly 
prior to frontal passage before drier air and westerly winds 
behind the front arrive Tuesday morning as weak high pressure 
builds in from the west and delivers drier conditions. 

High temperatures will remain slightly below normal Saturday, 
then resume to near normal Sunday through Tuesday with near to 
slightly above normal overnight lows throughout the period.

&&

.AVIATION...
(18Z TAFS)
Issued at 113 PM EDT Wed Oct 26 2022

Some brief MVFR CIGS are occurring ahead of the frontal boundary
in conjunction with some of the light showers/sprinkles pushing
across the region. Have added these to all TAF sites over the next
couple of hours with some brief wind gusts expected at GNV/SGJ as
enough instability has kicked off some heavier showers with some
potential for MVFR VSBYS as well. Otherwise mainly SW flow around
10 knots with mainly VFR conds. Not a very sharp wind shift with
the frontal boundary as it passes through, just expect winds to
become more light out of the W-SW towards sunset and clouds to
become more FEW-SCT in the 22-02Z time frame, then just a few high
clouds during the evening hours from 02-04Z as light NW to N winds
set up and drier airmass slowly seeps in from the North. Still
light enough winds to allow for some brief sunrise fog at GNV/VQQ,
otherwise main story for late in the TAF period (12-18Z) is the
increase in N-NE winds and some lower level strato-cu clouds to
push inland off the Atlantic and impact SGJ/CRG with possible MVFR
CIGS, but probs still too low to include these that far out in
time.

&&

.MARINE...
Issued at 303 AM EDT Wed Oct 26 2022

A weakening cold front will approach from the west today and 
slowly drift southeastward into the local waters this evening. 
Southerly winds this morning will turn offshore this afternoon as
the front nears. High pressure will wedge along the Atlantic 
coast behind the front Thursday. The high will strengthen through
Friday while a coastal trough develops offshore along the remnant
front. A northeasterly wind surge will develop between those 
features and result in Exercise Caution conditions Friday. A long 
fetch of prolonged northeast winds will build seas to hazardous 
levels offshore through the weekend. Seas will lower by early 
next week as another front approaches from the west.

Rip Current Risk: Low risk under offshore flow regime Today. An 
onshore swell and increasing northeasterly winds will result in a 
Moderate risk on Thursday.

&&

.PRELIMINARY POINT TEMPS/POPS...
AMG  83  49  79  56 /  30   0  10  10 
SSI  80  60  74  63 /  20  10  10  10 
JAX  85  57  79  62 /  30  20  10  10 
SGJ  84  63  78  66 /  20  20  10  10 
GNV  84  58  83  63 /  20  10  20  10 
OCF  85  61  83  63 /  20  10  20  20 

&&

.JAX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
FL...None.
GA...None.
AM...None.
&&

$$
