344 
FXUS65 KGJT 261740
AFDGJT

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Grand Junction CO
1140 AM MDT Wed Oct 26 2022

.UPDATE...
Issued at 1038 AM MDT Wed Oct 26 2022

Have been battling precipitation type falling in some of the
upvalley locations this morning comparing forecast to reality and
made some adjustments. Concerned about temperatures this afternoon
as well with the amount of moisture in place and whether we can
clear out in others. Sun or no sun will be big player today and
did make an early adjustment downward in many areas today which
will likely not be the last tweak. With snow not impacting most of
the lower elevation roadways this is not as big a deal as later in
the year. This wave and first batch of more organized
precipitation will be shifting east through the early
afternoon...while upstream the colder more dynamic storm drops
into the N.Great Basin. This second storm will be impactful this
evening through tomorrow afternoon. Forecast generally on track
and will be considering winter hazards farther South into the
northern San Juans as strong CAA and northerly flow arrive there
tomorrow morning. 

&&

.SHORT TERM...(Today through Thursday)
Issued at 448 AM MDT Wed Oct 26 2022

As models had suggested in earlier runs, a cold front stalled in 
the vicinity and parallel to the I-70 corridor in the wake of a 
low amplitude mid-level trough which passed over the region 
Tuesday. In response to the next mid-level trough now over the 
Pacific Northwest, flow at the 700 mb level has shifted to the 
southwest resulting in overrunning of the stationary front. This 
has resulted in a broad swath of showers centered over I-70 with 
light showers reported at Canyonlands and here at Grand Junction. 
Web cams atop the Grand Mesa indicated showers were falling in 
the form of snow. 

Today, the trough upstream shifts southeastward as positive tilt
open wave with its axis pushing across northwest Utah by 00Z/Thu.
Continued southwest flow ahead of this system causes the front to
lift northward as warm front. As the system closes on the forecast
area ascent associated with overrunning will be augmented by mid-
level forcing depicted in negative div-Q fields in addition to 
divergence associated with the cyclonically curved jet. This will 
cause precipitation to increase in both intensity and coverage as
the day progresses. Warm air advection ahead of the system will 
cause snow levels to rise to mountain bases during the afternoon 
and up to 8500' this afternoon over southwest Colorado. 

The trough continues to steadily track southeastward tonight with
its axis oriented northeast to southwest, bisecting the forecast 
by 12Z/Thu. Meanwhile, the surface front associated with this 
system will be driven southeastward across the region exiting 
south of the UT/CO border by sunrise. This will cause snow levels 
to lower to valley floors overnight. On Thursday the system forms
a closed low south of Pagosa Springs, just across the border over
north-central New Mexico before finally pushing over the central 
part of that state late in the afternoon. Lapse rates increase as 
the system passes overhead tonight while Q fields continued to 
indicate good mid-level omega values. Meanwhile, flow shifts back
around to the northwest on the rear flank of the system, yielding
more favorable orographic flow for the western Colorado mountains. 
Steep lapse rates and a deeper dendritic growth zone will aid in 
snow production in the high country tonight into Thursday. 

Previous shift's snowfall totals appeared to be on track and made
no changes with this package. Specifically, this system is
expected to bring a storm total of 5 to 10 inches with locally
higher amounts for the northern and central Colorado mountains
through Thursday afternoon. Lower elevations across northwest
Colorado along with the higher central valleys of Colorado can
expect 1 to 2 inches of snow, mainly during the night. One area 
that may require attention is the northwest San Juan Mountains 
where northwest flow on the backside of this system could cause 
snow to pile up fast. Not enough confidence to pull the trigger 
yet, so will make no changes to the going Winter Weather 
Advisories across western Colorado's high country with this 
package. 

Despite clouds and shower activity, mild overnight lows this
morning combined with weak warm air advection should help
temperatures rise a few degrees this afternoon. Overnight lows
will feel the affects of cold air advection on the backside of the
front, however, shower activity and clouds will buoy overnight
lows to some degree. On Thursday the region will cool by 5 to 10 
degrees relative to today's highs as the colder airmass takes 
hold across the region.

.LONG TERM...(Thursday night through Tuesday) 
Issued at 448 AM MDT Wed Oct 26 2022

Models remained in good agreement with dry conditions this weekend
and into Monday. Differences in perturbations crossing the region
may add some fluctuation and a wider ensemble spread with regard 
to high temperatures. For now, the forecast consists of a slow 
warm up through the end of October.

November will begin with a question mark as the more progressive
ECMWF digs a deep trough over the West bringing the threat of 
showers to the northern zones Tuesday afternoon. However, both the
Canadian and GFS operational runs favored the trough's placement 
over the West Coast and dry southwest flow. The National Model 
Blend seemed to be more influenced by the ECMWF solution 
suggesting a chance of showers over the eastern Uinta Mountains 
Thursday afternoon with a slight chance for precipitation 
generally north of the I-70 corridor and over the central Colorado
mountains. Given model differences, this seems a reasonable 
place to start. What's more certain is that temperatures will 
continue their slow warming trend with readings finally near, or 
perhaps a little above normal.

&&

.AVIATION...(For the 18Z TAFS through 18Z Thursday afternoon)
Issued at 1140 AM MDT Wed Oct 26 2022

Plenty of impacts in the Colorado mountain TAF sites with MVFR to
IFR conditons in place due to snowfall and lower cigs and
widespread terrain obscuration. Farther West some improvement as
we are between systems and drier air trying to mix in aloft.
Unfortunately lift over low level moisture may continue to keep
some cloud cover over all but the southern TAF sites this
afternoon. This should be VFR but localized ILS conditions will be
possible. As the main system pushes through overnight widespread
MVFR to IFR conditions appear probable with slow improvement from
West to East coming Thursday afternoon.  

&&

.GJT WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CO...Winter Weather Advisory until noon MDT Thursday for COZ004-013.

     Winter Weather Advisory until 6 PM MDT Thursday for COZ009-010-
     012.

UT...None.
&&

$$

UPDATE...15
SHORT TERM...NL
LONG TERM...ERW/NL
AVIATION...TGJT
