353 
FXUS65 KGJT 260517
AFDGJT

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Grand Junction CO
1117 PM MDT Tue Oct 25 2022

.SHORT TERM...(Tonight through Wednesday) 
Issued at 325 PM MDT Tue Oct 25 2022

Moist westerly flow embedded within a brisk mid and upper level 
jet coupled with a weak wave over Wyoming and weak low-level 
overrunning is resulting in a blanket of stratus clouds across the
northern half of the forecast area today. While the subcloud 
layer is fairly dry, there's enough orographic and dynamic lift 
within the moist dendritic layer aloft to produce some light snow 
across the eastern Uinta mountains, the Elkhead mountains, the 
Park Range, the Flat Tops and some of the northern adjacent
Colorado high valleys. Overall, the intensity of this snow will 
remain limited through this evening with perhaps an inch or two of
accumulation possible up high. As we head into the the nighttime 
hours, the northern wave exiting Wyoming will throw a cold front 
southward into the CWA and this is expected to slow down and stall
near the I-70 corridor. Light and scattered showers will continue. 

Meanwhile, another low-amplitude shortwave will eject out of the 
Great Basin and approach eastern Utah and western Colorado from 
the west tonight. This wave is expected to interact with the 
frontal boundary and moisture that are already in place, with 
increasing frontogenesis and jet dynamics leading to surface 
convergence and large scale forcing for ascent. Ongoing showers 
across the northern and central mountains will expand westward and
become more widespread as forcing increases during the second 
half of tonight. Hi-res models have become increasingly bullish 
with regards to precipitation coverage and intensity in recent 
runs and latest forecast reflects that. Precipitation type will 
mostly be snow in the higher elevations, transitioning to a 
rain/snow mix in the lower high valleys and either all or mostly 
rain in the desert valleys, including the Grand Valley and Utah 
Grand Flat. Widespread showers will continue through the morning 
hours on Wednesday before tapering off from west to east late 
morning into the afternoon. This lull in shower activity won't 
last however, as yet another system will follow quick on its 
heels. More on that in the long term discussion below. Snow totals
with this first system are expected to be modest, but the late 
night and early morning timing may lead to impacts to the morning 
commute, particularly in the mountains and high mountain passes. 
Take it slow and give yourself extra time if you'll be traveling 
Wednesday morning.

.LONG TERM...(Wednesday night through Tuesday) 
Issued at 325 PM MDT Tue Oct 25 2022

Another cold front is progged to dive into northeastern Utah 
Wednesday evening, and cross the entire West Slope by Thursday 
afternoon. This is another quick moving system, however, jet 
dynamics, QG-forcing, and sharp frontal boundary combined with an 
anomalously moist air mass are once again at play. This low 
pressure system is not forecast to intensify as strong as last 
weekend's, but still provides an ample environment for 
accumulating snow across western Colorado mountain zones. Late 
evening snow squalls could be on the table for the Upper Yampa 
River Basin and/or thunder snow Wednesday, then snowfall intensity
quickly shifts south overnight. A cold front trekking across the 
region at night also leaves valley floors more susceptible to 
receive measurable snowfall. Snow levels take a plunge behind the 
front, but diurnal temperatures bottoming out below freezing 
Thursday morning are a convenient hour for precipitation 
overrunning, ahead of the front, to crystallize before reaching 
the surface. Current projection maintains the best snow generation
above 9kft, with a trace to a few tenths over western Colorado 
valleys.

Lingering showers along the Divide are possible in the cold 
front's wake, however, the "juicy dynamics" tied to this system 
shift southeast of region by Thursday afternoon, leaving the CWA 
under an area of subsidence and dry northerly flow. 24-hour snow 
totals favor the northern and central ranges, generally 8 to 12 
inches above 9kft for the Gore and Park ranges, Flat Tops, and 
into Sawatch, Elks and West Elks. These 24-hour accumulations, 
alone, warrant Advisory level conditions. However, due the 
combination of snow from Wednesday's wave and little to no break 
in active weather for western Colorado mountains, have decided to 
pull the two pulses together in one Winter Highlight. Advisories 
go into effect for north and central Colorado mountain zones 
midnight tonight and extend into Thursday. Moving south, snow 
accumulation lessens over the southwest San Juans in both waves, 
with closer to 5 to 8 inches expected above 9kft in total. One 
caveat, and area worth mentioning, is the town of Ouray leading up
to Red Mountain Pass where post-frontal and northerly flow favors
cold air damming against higher terrain as well as enhanced 
orographics. A gorge event could inflate current snow totals in 
this localized area by several inches; just another microclimate 
to consider! Areas across eastern Utah, as well as the Unc and 
Tavaputs in western Colorado and not favored in this northwest 
flow regime. Thus, no highlights have been included for remaining 
mountain zones. 

Models are in good agreement with Wednesday night-Thursday's cold
front and then maintain dry conditions through the weekend. 
Differences in perturbations crossing the region may add some 
fluctuation and a wider ensemble spread with regard to high 
temperatures. Though, the general forecast consists of a dip, 5 to
10 degrees, on Thursday, followed by a slow warm up through the 
end of October.

&&

.AVIATION...(For the 06Z TAFS through 06Z Wednesday night)
Issued at 1117 PM MDT Tue Oct 25 2022

Elsewhere ILS conditions and mountain obscuration is expected for
the next several hours. Another band of snow and and lower valley
rain will develop late tonight and will continue through the late
morning. Most sites will improve towards the afternoon although 
showers may persist in the mountains most of the day and into the
evening.

&&

.GJT WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...

CO...Winter Weather Advisory until noon MDT Thursday for COZ004-013.

     Winter Weather Advisory until 6 PM MDT Thursday for COZ009-010-
     012.

UT...None.

&&

$$

SHORT TERM...MDM
LONG TERM...ERW
AVIATION...TGJT
