206 
FXUS65 KGJT 261211
AFDGJT

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Grand Junction CO
611 AM MDT Wed Oct 26 2022

.SHORT TERM...(Today through Thursday)
Issued at 448 AM MDT Wed Oct 26 2022

As models had suggested in earlier runs, a cold front stalled in 
the vicinity and parallel to the I-70 corridor in the wake of a 
low amplitude mid-level trough which passed over the region 
Tuesday. In response to the next mid-level trough now over the 
Pacific Northwest, flow at the 700 mb level has shifted to the 
southwest resulting in overrunning of the stationary front. This 
has resulted in a broad swath of showers centered over I-70 with 
light showers reported at Canyonlands and here at Grand Junction. 
Web cams atop the Grand Mesa indicated showers were falling in 
the form of snow. 

Today, the trough upstream shifts southeastward as positive tilt
open wave with its axis pushing across northwest Utah by 00Z/Thu.
Continued southwest flow ahead of this system causes the front to
lift northward as warm front. As the system closes on the forecast
area ascent associated with overrunning will be augmented by mid-
level forcing depicted in negative div-Q fields in addition to 
divergence associated with the cyclonically curved jet. This will 
cause precipitation to increase in both intensity and coverage as
the day progresses. Warm air advection ahead of the system will 
cause snow levels to rise to mountain bases during the afternoon 
and up to 8500' this afternoon over southwest Colorado. 

The trough continues to steadily track southeastward tonight with
its axis oriented northeast to southwest, bisecting the forecast 
by 12Z/Thu. Meanwhile, the surface front associated with this 
system will be driven southeastward across the region exiting 
south of the UT/CO border by sunrise. This will cause snow levels 
to lower to valley floors overnight. On Thursday the system forms
a closed low south of Pagosa Springs, just across the border over
north-central New Mexico before finally pushing over the central 
part of that state late in the afternoon. Lapse rates increase as 
the system passes overhead tonight while Q fields continued to 
indicate good mid-level omega values. Meanwhile, flow shifts back
around to the northwest on the rear flank of the system, yielding
more favorable orographic flow for the western Colorado mountains. 
Steep lapse rates and a deeper dendritic growth zone will aid in 
snow production in the high country tonight into Thursday. 

Previous shift's snowfall totals appeared to be on track and made
no changes with this package. Specifically, this system is
expected to bring a storm total of 5 to 10 inches with locally
higher amounts for the northern and central Colorado mountains
through Thursday afternoon. Lower elevations across northwest
Colorado along with the higher central valleys of Colorado can
expect 1 to 2 inches of snow, mainly during the night. One area 
that may require attention is the northwest San Juan Mountains 
where northwest flow on the backside of this system could cause 
snow to pile up fast. Not enough confidence to pull the trigger 
yet, so will make no changes to the going Winter Weather 
Advisories across western Colorado's high country with this 
package. 

Despite clouds and shower activity, mild overnight lows this
morning combined with weak warm air advection should help
temperatures rise a few degrees this afternoon. Overnight lows
will feel the affects of cold air advection on the backside of the
front, however, shower activity and clouds will buoy overnight
lows to some degree. On Thursday the region will cool by 5 to 10 
degrees relative to today's highs as the colder airmass takes 
hold across the region.

.LONG TERM...(Thursday night through Tuesday) 
Issued at 448 AM MDT Wed Oct 26 2022

Models remained in good agreement with dry conditions this weekend
and into Monday. Differences in perturbations crossing the region
may add some fluctuation and a wider ensemble spread with regard 
to high temperatures. For now, the forecast consists of a slow 
warm up through the end of October.

November will begin with a question mark as the more progressive
ECMWF digs a deep trough over the West bringing the threat of 
showers to the northern zones Tuesday afternoon. However, both the
Canadian and GFS operational runs favored the trough's placement 
over the West Coast and dry southwest flow. The National Model 
Blend seemed to be more influenced by the ECMWF solution 
suggesting a chance of showers over the eastern Uinta Mountains 
Thursday afternoon with a slight chance for precipitation 
generally north of the I-70 corridor and over the central Colorado
mountains. Given model differences, this seems a reasonable 
place to start. What's more certain is that temperatures will 
continue their slow warming trend with readings finally near, or 
perhaps a little above normal.

&&

.AVIATION...(For the 12Z TAFS through 12Z Thursday morning)
Issued at 610 AM MDT Wed Oct 26 2022

A broad band of showers extended along the I-70 corridor extending 
as far south as KGUC and as far north as KHDN. Showers were 
falling as rain at KGJT and KCNY transitioning to snow farther up
the valley at KRIL, KEGE and KASE. This band will shift northward
toward midday, then expands southward again tonight as a storm 
now over the Pacific Northwest approaches. Therefore, aside from 
KVEL and KDRO, TAF sites will see periods with MVFR ceilings and 
due to either rain, snow, or a rain snow mix. KGJT and KCNY aren't
likely to see visibility drop into the MVFR category since showers
aren't likely to turn over to snow with this system. However, 
KHDN, KEGE, KRIL, KASE, KGUC and KTEX are certain to see 
visibility hit MVFR levels with occasional dips into the IFR/LIFR 
categories due to snow. In addition, KRIL, KEGE and KASE will all 
have ceilings below ILS breakpoints through much of the next 24 
hours.

&&

.GJT WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...

CO...Winter Weather Advisory until noon MDT Thursday for COZ004-013.

     Winter Weather Advisory until 6 PM MDT Thursday for COZ009-010-
     012.

UT...None.

&&

$$

SHORT TERM...NL
LONG TERM...ERW/NL
AVIATION...NL
