364 
FXUS65 KGJT 262152
AFDGJT

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Grand Junction CO
352 PM MDT Wed Oct 26 2022

.SHORT TERM...(Tonight through Thursday night)
Issued at 352 PM MDT Wed Oct 26 2022

This first piece of this storm has been performing much better
than expected be it warm advection/upglide or more intense mid
level frontogenetic forcing. This latter scenario is what brought
a decent batch of snow across portions of the Roaring Fork Valley
up into the Upper Eagle Valley where reports of 4 to 6 inches
accumulated on the vegetation. Luckily warm pavement and high LSRs
have kept the roadways from becoming snowpacked in these lower
elevations. We now await the main storm system passage over the
next 24 hours which is currently making for a pretty picture in 
H2O imagery over eastern Idaho. A sharp trough will be carved out
of this low and pass East of the Colorado/Utah border near
sunrise. Another low will spin up in the base of the trough as the
core of the strong cyclonic jet aloft reforms on the upstream
side which will keep a threat of wrap around moisture into our
southern mountain through sunset on Thursday. The jet and arrival
of the upper system will provide large scale ascent for lifting 
another batch of Pacific moisture also seen in water vapor 
imagery approaching from upstream. So needless to say between the
upper forcing and moist orographics much of our high country will
see snow continuing or starting back up through the late evening
hours. Then from late this evening to mid morning Thursday looks 
to be period when we will see some good snow production with the 
possibility of several inches per hour in some bands. This will be
due to the surface cold front plunging southward...completing and
connection to mid level frontogenesis and ascent aloft...to 
produce what looks to be a persistent E-W band of heavy precip 
across our central CWA. This band of course has been shifting not 
only with each model run...but is not entirely consistent between 
models. The highest probability will be from the Grand Mesa into 
the Elks and this is reflected with confidence in the forecast. 
There is some indication this band could be as far North as the 
Eagle River Valley again impacting portions of the Roaring Fork 
Valley to the Avon area with another round of heavy snow. The 
difference will be the time of day and much colder air which will 
impact roadways/travel...at the very least. Therefore did place 
the upper portions of the I-70 corridor in an advisory for 
tonight. If this band forms a bit farther south...snow amounts up 
near I-70 could be much less. Lastly profiles show the possibility
of both CSI and CI and this ascent will have no problem releasing
instability increasing snow rates and leading to possible 
thundersnow. The other area of concern will be the windward side 
of the San Juans when the cold air piles in deeper with the 
arrival of the front then trough and cold air aloft. Could this be
a Gorge Event...possibly. The more probable impacts will be along
the 550 corridor south of Montrose into the high passes and did 
hoist and advisory here as well. Otherwise this system looks to be
ending through the day and ending times look on track for current
advisories. Unfortunately the flow isn't favoring the southern 
San Juans and adjacent valleys plus models are showing a distinct 
dry slot wrapping into the newly formed closed low near the NMex 
border tomorrow morning. Clearing and cold temperatures will be 
moving in for early Friday. 

.LONG TERM...(Friday through Wednesday)
Issued at 352 PM MDT Wed Oct 26 2022


The long term kicks off with, likely, our coldest morning yet 
this Fall. However, widespread-sub-freezing temps gradually warm 
on Friday and will continue this upward trend into next week. As 
far as synoptic patterns go, an amplified ridge slides across the 
region on Friday, maintaining dry conditions and allowing warmer 
air to usher back in. The transient ridge is quickly deflected 
east Friday night, with another shortwave trough moving inland 
just upstream. Minimal moisture tied to this wave's passage will 
maintain a dry forecast on Saturday, though, passing clouds may 
damper high temperatures (if not, at least apparent temperatures).
Flow regime in the wake of an anticlimactic wave is light, and 
generally shifts back to the west- northwest. As a result, dry and
tranquil weather resumes through the beginning of next week while
the CWA is positioned between a broad trough over the Central 
Plains and another system deepening along the PacNW coast. During 
this period, weather across the Western Slope stabilizes back 
towards, or even above, normal temperatures for early November. 
Then, the chaotic spaghetti plots reemerge with regard to the 
phase and amplitude of next week's trough as it progresses across 
the Western CONUS. 500 mb EOF patterns produced for Monday through
Wednesday also identify regions of uncertainty on the upstream 
side of this system, as well as its depth, amongst the group of 90
ensemble members. In other words, confidence of where this system
will be and its amplitude dwindles beyond Monday. Regardless, an 
active pattern returning to the CWA by the later half of the week 
remains in the cards and will be the next system on our radar 
(literally...and figuratively...weather puns).

&&

.AVIATION...(For the 18Z TAFS through 18Z Thursday afternoon)
Issued at 1140 AM MDT Wed Oct 26 2022

Plenty of impacts in the Colorado mountain TAF sites with MVFR to
IFR conditons in place due to snowfall and lower cigs and
widespread terrain obscuration. Farther West some improvement as
we are between systems and drier air trying to mix in aloft.
Unfortunately lift over low level moisture may continue to keep
some cloud cover over all but the southern TAF sites this
afternoon. This should be VFR but localized ILS conditions will be
possible. As the main system pushes through overnight widespread
MVFR to IFR conditions appear probable with slow improvement from
West to East coming Thursday afternoon.  


&&

.GJT WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CO...Winter Weather Advisory until noon MDT Thursday for COZ004-013.

     Winter Weather Advisory until 9 AM MDT Thursday for COZ008.

     Winter Weather Advisory until 6 PM MDT Thursday for COZ009-010-
     012.

     Winter Weather Advisory from midnight tonight to 6 PM MDT 
     Thursday for COZ018.

UT...None.
&&

$$

SHORT TERM...15
LONG TERM...ERW
AVIATION...TGJT
