700 
FXUS66 KHNX 262126
AFDHNX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Hanford CA
226 PM PDT Wed Oct 26 2022


.SYNOPSIS...
After today's cooler and breezy conditions, lighter winds and 
warming back to near average temperatures will occur Thursday and 
Friday, then little changes into early next week. 

&&

.DISCUSSION...
A shortwave trough is tracking southward through central
California, bringing some cooler and breezier conditions this
afternoon. Current 24 hr temperature trends are generally running
down around 3-6 degrees outside of the desert zones, where 
temperatures are instead running up as much as 4-8 degrees from 
this time yesterday. Highs this afternoon outside of the desert
areas should maintain the current temperature trend. Desert zones
will begin to see some cooling with the passing frontal trough 
and highs today should end up similar to yesterday's highs.

Gusty winds will develop through and below the mountain passes this
evening behind the trough. National Blended Model guidance is 
typically too low in depicting wind speeds in this scenario. The
likely more accurate 90th percentile solution, suggests a few
hours of winds gusting around 45 mph in the Mojave area this
evening. Meanwhile we can expect chilly temperatures overnight
across our area, with lows running around 4-8 degrees below
normal.

Model ensemble solutions build a weak ridge over California behind
the departing trough, bringing continued dry conditions with
warming temperatures during the next couple of days. By Friday,
afternoon highs are likely to be near seasonal averages. A weak
shortwave impulse brings just a slight dip in temperatures, then
recovering to near normal for the start of next week.

The spread increases in model ensemble solutions for the Tuesday-
Wednesday period next week as a low pressure system is progged to
drop out of the northeast Pacific region. There will be cooling
during the period, as well as the potential for some precipitation.
Although there is higher uncertainty during this period, pending
the trajectory and strength of the low pressure system, current 
blended model guidance for Wednesday suggests some of the best 
chances for precipitation and coolest afternoon highs for the 
season so far. Probabilities of high temperatures no higher than 
69 degrees in the San Joaquin Valley next Wednesday are around 
60-70 percent.

&&


.AVIATION...
VFR conditions will prevail across the area for at least the next
24 hours.

&&

.AIR QUALITY ISSUES...

None.



&&

.CERTAINTY...

The level of certainty for days 1 and 2 is high.
The level of certainty for days 3 through 7 is medium.

Certainty levels include low...medium...and high. Please visit
www.weather.gov/hnx/certainty.html for additional information
an/or to provide feedback.

&&

.HNX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
None.
&&

$$

public...JEB
aviation....JEB

weather.gov/hanford
