813 
FXUS66 KHNX 260900
AFDHNX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Hanford CA
200 AM PDT Wed Oct 26 2022


.SYNOPSIS...
A system passing over the Great Basin on Today will bring an 
increase in winds and possible cooling. Lighter winds and warming
back to near average temperatures will occur Thursday and Friday 
then little changes through the weekend. 

&&

.DISCUSSION...
Another warm and pleasant day across the Central California 
Interior as a few spots managed to reach back to near 80 degrees 
on Tuesday. Along with light winds, the region experienced a nice 
day ahead of the next dry disturbance expected to cross the area 
this Wednesday. Currently, the associated cold front is now 
approaching the region and expected to cross the district later 
today. While the surface pressure gradient from KSFO to KLAS has 
now passed 5mb, the gradient is expected to tighten a bit more as 
locally windy conditions will be observed this afternoon during 
frontal passage over the favored locations. The next disturbance 
across the area will remain dry with cooling expected. Afterward, 
warming with pleasant conditions until yet another disturbance 
moves through the area toward the end of the period on Tuesday.

Confidence in the short-range High Resolution Ensemble Forecast 
of the next disturbance is high. Ensemble models have been very 
consistent in tracking the next disturbance through the Pacific 
Northwest and into the Great Basin this Wednesday. Therefore, will
maintain the current thinking of a dry solution with cooling 
temperatures this Wednesday. Yet, the disturbance is too weak for 
any significant break-down of the warm and dry pattern that 
Central California has been under for some time now. NBM 
temperature analysis agrees that a brief cool-down may occur on 
Wednesday, yet it will be followed by weak warm-up toward the end 
of the week. Ensemble error spread does grow during the latter 
part of the week, yet that spread has remained at minimal levels 
for several ensemble model runs. Therefore, could see another 80 
degree day across the San Joaquin Valley later this week, but for 
now 70 degree max temperatures will be more common. 

Ensemble longer range analysis is show a very uncertain 
projection of possible precipitation toward the end of the 
forecast period. While ensemble moisture analysis does support 
possible precipitation, ensemble dynamics seem a bit weak to 
support more than just clouds. Cluster analysis is showing high 
uncertainty and no significant signal toward the introduction of 
precipitation on Tuesday. Therefore, the mention of precipitation 
next week comes with higher uncertainty for the valley. Orographic
enhancement maybe that extra support that may allow the Sierra 
Nevada to receive better chances of possible precipitation. 
Temperatures may stay in a steady state before a downward trend 
may be observed during the passage of the disturbance near the 
next Tuesday period.

&&

.AVIATION...
VFR conditions will prevail across the area for at least the next
24 hours.

&&

.AIR QUALITY ISSUES...
None.

&&

.CERTAINTY...

The level of certainty for days 1 and 2 is high.
The level of certainty for days 3 through 7 is medium.

Certainty levels include low...medium...and high. Please visit
www.weather.gov/hnx/certainty.html for additional information
an/or to provide feedback.

&&

.HNX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
None.

&&

$$

Public/Aviation/Fire Wx....Molina
IDSS/PIO/Social Media......BS

weather.gov/hanford
