875 
FXUS65 KMSO 262057
AFDMSO

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Missoula MT
257 PM MDT Wed Oct 26 2022

.DISCUSSION...Satellite imagery shows low pressure over southern
Idaho. This feature brought snow to north-central Idaho and
portions of southwest Montana so far today. Webcams at Seeley
Lake, Hamilton, Georgetown Lake, and Butte all showed periods of 
snow with some accumulation on the grass. Lost Trail pass probably
picked up about 2 inches of snow which is what the Saddle Mountain
SNOTEL snow depth sensor reported. Also current satellite shows an
enhancement near the counter-clockwise swirl over southern Lemhi
County. The webcam at Gilmore Summit on Highway 28 is shows that
it is snowing hard enough for it to slushy. 

This low pressure system will continue to track southeastwards
towards western Wyoming by this evening. In its wake, the region
will be weak northwesterly and unstable flow. Snow showers will
continue along the Idaho and Montana border and in the mountains
across northwest Montana through Thursday morning. The mountain
passes of Lookout and Lolo could experience off and on snow
showers. 

Slightly milder air will work its way up over the Northern Rockies
on Thursday into the weekend as a slight ridge builds. One caveat
will be the chance for a few pieces of the moisture plume that 
will impact the Pacific Northwest to bring rain showers across
northwest Montana. The ridge flattens a bit Friday night into
Sunday which will bring a plethora of clouds into the region, and
possible showers, mainly north of Missoula and across north- 
central Idaho. With the strong westerly flow developing by Sunday
and strong low pressure over central Alberta, Canada, there will
be an uptick in surface winds along the Continental Divide and for
some of the larger valleys of western Montana. Flathead Lake winds
could be strong enough to warrant an advisory. There is a 86
percent chance that winds could be gusting over 25 mph on the lake
on Sunday afternoon. Gusty winds are also possible on Monday.

Another cool and wet period looks likely from Monday through much
of the week. Model clusters agree on the arrival of a trough early
in the week, but disagree on the finer details. There are a number
of differences in location and strength of the trough, which will
have implications on the sensible weather. At the very least, 
measurable precipitation looks likely. Mountain snow and valley 
showers are going to be expected, but snow reaching the valleys is
where more questions arise. 

Deterministic guidance would suggest a fairly strong push of cold
air by Wednesday, leading to possible accumulating snow in the 
valleys. The ensembles are showing this potential as well, with 
most showing at least a trace to one inch of snowfall in places 
like Missoula. The NBM 50th percentile even shows total snowfall 
for the week at around 2 inches in Missoula by Friday. The NBM 
still shows daytime highs in Missoula in the lower 40s, which 
would make accumulating snow during the daytime hours rather 
difficult. Of note, however, is the downward trend in those 
forecast high temperatures, and the colder model solutions getting
closer to daytime highs at or below freezing. The strength of the
trough, and ultimately the cold air push, will determine how 
widespread the snow potential is.

There is up to a 80 percent probability for mountain locations 
along the Idaho and Montana border and northwest Montana mountains
to receive over 6 inches through mid-week. This could bring 
potential slick driving at mountain passes and also impact 
backcountry users. 

&&


.AVIATION...
The upper level trough that has been bringing precipitation to the
region will be pulling away today. Low to mid-level clouds will
continue to linger behind this system. A few showers will remain
possible until around 27/00z, when most of the precipitation will
be out of the region. Precipitation has been falling as snow at
KSMN and KBTM, and has led to lowered ceilings and reduced
visibilities at times. Those conditions will also improve through
the evening hours. Winds will be gusting 10-15 knots until around
26/02z, thanks in part to a strengthening surface pressure
gradient. Thursday looks mainly dry with thinning cloud cover. A
brief, spotty shower will remain possible at KGPI. Winds will
increase once again after 27/16z. 

&&

.MSO WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
MT...None.
ID...None.
&&

$$
