170 
FXUS65 KMSO 260145
AFDMSO

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Missoula MT
745 PM MDT Tue Oct 25 2022

.UPDATE...Added a winter weather advisory for the Bitterroot and
Sapphire Mountains to include Lolo and Lost Trail Passes Wednesday
morning. Snowfall amounts of 2 to 4 inches in these areas will 
lead to periods of snow covered roads through mid morning on
Wednesday.


&&

.PREV DISCUSSION... /ISSUED 205 PM MDT Tue Oct 25 2022/ 

DISCUSSION...Lingering light mountain snow showers (above 4500
feet) with even lighter valley rain showers have continued
throughout the early half of this afternoon. Showers will be light
for the duration of the evening as well before our next round of
precipitation begins again overnight. With tonight's weather
system, we expect the focus of snowfall to once again remain
around and above 4000 feet in central Idaho and along the
Montana/Idaho border. Higher terrain, including Lolo Pass and high
elevation valley roadways, could see between 2 to 6 inches of snow
through late Wednesday morning. As such, Winter Weather Advisories
have been issued through 11 AM PDT to account for travel impacts
due to snow. 

Snow levels will lower across the majority of the Northern Rockies
down to about 3000 feet Wednesday morning, which means that light
snow may occur down to many valley floors during the morning 
commute. While impacts are expected to be minimal, watch out for 
occasional slick spots in the morning hours. In most cases, 
precipitation should be a rain/snow mix for the bulk of valley 
locations, but just be aware that snow is possible. 

With an atmospheric river looming just off the PacNW Coast in the
extended forecast period, here in the Northern Rockies we are 
expecting a mostly dry (with a few lingering mountain showers) 
Thursday through Saturday period. There are still a number of 
major timing discrepancies between forecast models on just when 
the atmospheric river will make its way fully into our neck of the
woods. As it stands now, that period looks to be Monday and 
Tuesday of next week, but we'll continue to watch for any changes.

AVIATION...Showers continue to plague western Montana, along with
southwesterly winds at most terminals. Showers, while light in
nature, will continue overnight and intensify, particularly across
west central Montana and central Idaho. A mix of rain and snow
will be possible at KMSO and KGIC through 26/1800Z, with lowered
ceilings and visibility. Showers could occur at KBTM, KSMN, and
KGPI, but are expected to be minimal. Mountain obscurations will
be prominent across all of the Northern Rockies.

&&

.MSO WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
MT...Winter Weather Advisory from 3 AM to noon MDT Wednesday for 
     Bitterroot/Sapphire Mountains. 

ID...Winter Weather Advisory from 2 AM to 11 AM PDT Wednesday for 
     Northern Clearwater Mountains...Southern Clearwater 
     Mountains. 

&&

$$
