349 
FXUS65 KMSO 260911
AFDMSO

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Missoula MT
311 AM MDT Wed Oct 26 2022

.DISCUSSION...A weakening upper low will slide southeastward 
through the Northern Rockies today bringing areas of rain and 
snow of mainly light to moderate intensity. Precipitation is just
beginning early this morning across north-central Idaho and will 
spread eastward the rest of the morning hours. Precipitation 
totals will be light overall with the highest totals across north-
central Idaho into west-central Montana, where 2-6 inches of snow
is anticipated mainly above 4000 feet. Lolo, Lost Trail, and 
Lookout passes and with Whitebird Grade will experience periodic 
slick conditions through the morning. A very light rain/snow mix 
is anticipated in the lower valleys of western Montana, watch for
a few slick spots on area roadways during the morning commute. 
Precipitation turns showery this afternoon with a gradual 
diminishing this evening. 

Thursday and Friday continue to look dry with seasonably cool
temperatures for many areas. One exception is northwest Montana 
where periods of showers are possible, particularly on the
terrain, as an atmospheric river sits over the Pacific Northwest.

There remain considerable differences on when and how much the
atmospheric river will impact the Northern Rockies this weekend
into early next week. For now, the majority of models show the 
moisture and associated precipitation sagging southward on 
Saturday then coming across full force early next week. This 
scenario would be favorable for bringing significant moisture to 
the mountains. Many questions remain on if cold air will spill 
southward from Canada Tuesday and Wednesday of next week allowing 
snow to fall in the lower valleys. So basically it looks like an 
active pattern this weekend through much of next week but the 
details are still far from clear, please stay tuned. 


&&

AVIATION...A weakening upper low will slide southeastward through
the Northern Rockies today bringing areas of rain and snow of mainly
light to moderate intensity. Lowered ceilings and occasional 
reduced visibility will be common at terminal sites. Mountain 
obscurations will be prominent across all of the Northern Rockies.
Widespread precipitation will break up to scattered showers for 
this afternoon then diminish considerably this evening. 

&&

.MSO WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
MT...Winter Weather Advisory until noon MDT today for 
     Bitterroot/Sapphire Mountains. 

ID...Winter Weather Advisory until 11 AM PDT this morning for 
     Northern Clearwater Mountains...Southern Clearwater 
     Mountains. 

&&

$$
