894 
FXUS62 KCAE 261642
AFDCAE

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Columbia SC
1242 PM EDT Wed Oct 26 2022

.SYNOPSIS...
A weak front will cross into the region this morning, with scattered 
light showers possible. Dry weather is expected behind the front 
through Friday. Chances of rain increase again late in the weekend 
when another upper disturbance approaches from the west.

&&

.NEAR TERM /THROUGH TONIGHT/...
Upper low northwest of the area will push through the Ohio Valley 
and into New England today. The associated trough axis south of the 
low is advecting moisture toward the state, with a few showers 
beginning to move through the Upstate into the western Midlands. As 
the best dynamics remain well north of the region, model solutions 
and radar trends are in good agreement with the isolated to 
scattered showers (and perhaps a stray lightning strike) moving 
through the area over the next several hours. Cloud cover this 
morning has really helped insulate the boundary layer, with 
temperatures unable to drop too sharply. Lows should end up 
somewhere in the mid to upper 50s.

The atmosphere has moistened up considerably since this time 
yesterday, with PW estimates above 1" and dewpoints in the 50s. 
Despite this, we're still looking at very light QPFs, with PoPs 
decreasing as the line continues to dissipate as it moves toward the 
eastern Midlands/coastal plain. 

With the front east of the area by this afternoon and clear skies 
expected behind it, a modest increase in heights will foster warm 
temperatures given a few hours of good sunlight. Highs this 
afternoon should reach the upper 70s, perhaps the 80 degree mark 
across the southeast Midlands. Winds will also pick up from the west 
or southwest, with a few elevated gusts expected before speeds 
decrease and the direction becomes more northwest this evening. We 
should have better cooling tonight, but with winds unable to 
completely decouple, ideal radiation will be just out of reach. Lows 
tonight in the upper 40s to low 50s.

&&

.SHORT TERM /THURSDAY THROUGH SATURDAY/...
Surface high pressure builds into the Great Lakes and Northeast U.S. 
through the end of this week. The position of the surface high will 
lead to persistent onshore flow across The Midlands and CSRA and a 
cool air "wedge." Temperatures will decrease to below normal 
levels due to the wedge and by Friday and Saturday highs will be
in the mid 60s north to lower 70s south. 

&&

.LONG TERM /SATURDAY NIGHT THROUGH WEDNESDAY/...
A wedge of cool air over The Midlands and CSRA will gradually 
erode early next week as a slow moving upper level trough 
approaches the region. Expect a chance of showers Sunday through
Monday with the passage of this system. The best chance for
significant rainfall accumulation with this system should remain
across the Southern Appalachians. 

High pressure aloft gradually builds behind the above mentioned 
system which results in a return to dry weather and a warming
trend

&&

.AVIATION /18Z WEDNESDAY THROUGH MONDAY/...
Occasional MVFR conditions this morning as a front passes through 
the region.

Winds have been light and variable to calm tonight, and should 
continue as such early this morning. Approaching front will increase 
low level cloud cover from west to east through sunrise with some 
MVFR cigs expected mainly after 26/12z. Some brief fog is possible 
mainly in the coastal plain through about 29/12Z, with impacts 
likeliest at the OGB terminal. Surface winds gradually increase as 
the front approaches, limiting overall fog impacts through much of 
the Midlands and CSRA.

A broken line of SHRA is expected to push across the region in the 
26/11Z to 26/17Z time frame. Behind the front, WLY/SWLY surface wind 
increases to 8-12 kts with gusts to 20 kts possible this afternoon. 
from the west-southwest and become gusty into the afternoon. Quick 
improvements expected this afternoon with cloud decks lifting to SKC 
this evening and continuing overnight. Wind speeds decrease to less 
than 5 kts as well.


EXTENDED AVIATION OUTLOOK...No significant impacts to aviation 
expected through Thursday. Chances for ceiling restrictions could 
increase starting Thursday night into Friday and continue this 
weekend.

&&

.CAE WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
GA...None.
SC...None.

&&

$$
SYNOPSIS...
NEAR TERM...
SHORT TERM...
LONG TERM...
AVIATION...
