931 
FXUS62 KCAE 260619
AFDCAE

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Columbia SC
219 AM EDT Wed Oct 26 2022

.SYNOPSIS...
A weak front will cross into the region this morning, with scattered 
light showers possible. Dry weather is expected behind the front 
through Friday. Chances of rain increase again late in the weekend 
when another upper disturbance approaches from the west.

&&

.NEAR TERM /THROUGH 8 AM WEDNESDAY MORNING/...
The upper level cutoff low centered over southeastern Missouri 
will continue lifting off to the northeast overnight. The trough
axis south of the cutoff will help to push a prefrontal trough 
into our region late tonight. Moisture increases ahead of this
surface trough after midnight, helping to push some showers towards
the cwa. Best dynamics remain well north, and mainly expecting 
a line of scattered showers with an isolated thunderstorm possible.
QPF amounts still look to remain light. The best timing for the
line entering the western cwa still appears to be centered around
09z, with the bulk of the weakening activity then exiting off 
to the east by 12z. With an increase in clouds cover and winds 
later tonight, temperatures will drop into the lower to mid 50s.

&&

.SHORT TERM /WEDNESDAY THROUGH THURSDAY NIGHT/...
Closed upper low will track NE along the Ohio Valley and open 
and shift into New England/E CAN Wednesday, with most upper 
dynamics staying to our north. Latest CAMs in good agreement 
that weak surface front and associated scattered light shower 
activity will move into the CSRA by daybreak, through the 
central forecast area (FA) during the morning to midday hours, 
and push east of our FA during the afternoon, while the shower 
activity is expected to gradually diminish. 

Weak upper ridging to shift back into the region Thursday. The 
air mass behind the weak front is not cool with a surface high 
center emerging from N Mex/TX and shifting NE and merging with a
Canadian high center to the north. The main upper flow will 
keep the coolest air well to our north. Drier air will be 
shifting into the region behind the boundary with PW generally 
averaging around 0.75 inch Thu. Expect winds to veer behind the 
surface boundary passage late Wed/Wed nt, and become NE by Thu.

&&

.LONG TERM /FRIDAY THROUGH TUESDAY/...
Upper low to cut off over the S Rockies/West TX and shift east 
to the Lower Miss Valley Fri/Sat with resultant surface low 
developing near the TX/LA coast. Main zonal upper flow across 
the northern tier of states/S CAN. Confluent flow aloft to 
intensify the surface high center to our NE as it shifts east 
across E CAN and settles over New England. The closed low is 
progged to open and shift NE into the Midwest Sun/Mon along with
the surface low, followed by upper energy expected to track 
from the SW US east across TX Monday and towards our region 
Tuesday. Meanwhile, the surface high will ridge down the eastern
seaboard. Latest information indicates best isentropic 
lift/moisture transport for our region will be Sat nt/Sun/Sun 
nt, with hybrid cold air damming regime setting up at the 
surface. Due to the wedge, max temps are expected to trend down 
considerably for Sun/Mon. The wedge and associated low clouds 
and cool max temps are expected to be slow to erode with only 
weak surface high pressure, and SW flow aloft, over the region 
Mon/Tue. It appears good downslope flow to scour out the low 
cloudiness does not occur until late Tue/Tue nt into Wed behind 
the passage of an upper disturbance.

&&

.AVIATION /06Z WEDNESDAY THROUGH SUNDAY/...
Occasional MVFR conditions this morning as a front passes through 
the region.

Winds have been light and variable to calm tonight, and should 
continue as such early this morning. Approaching front will increase 
low level cloud cover from west to east through sunrise with some 
MVFR cigs expected mainly after 26/12z. Some brief fog is possible 
mainly in the coastal plain through about 29/12Z, with impacts 
likeliest at the OGB terminal. Surface winds gradually increase as 
the front approaches, limiting overall fog impacts through much of 
the Midlands and CSRA.

A broken line of SHRA is expected to push across the region in the 
26/11Z to 26/17Z time frame. Behind the front, WLY/SWLY surface wind 
increases to 8-12 kts with gusts to 20 kts possible this afternoon. 
from the west-southwest and become gusty into the afternoon. Quick 
improvements expected this afternoon with cloud decks lifting to SKC 
this evening and continuing overnight. Wind speeds decrease to less 
than 5 kts as well.


EXTENDED AVIATION OUTLOOK...No significant impacts to aviation 
expected through Thursday. Chances for ceiling restrictions could 
increase starting Thursday night into Friday and continue this 
weekend.

&&

.CAE WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
GA...None.
SC...None.

&&

$$
