065 
FXUS62 KCAE 262331
AFDCAE

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Columbia SC
731 PM EDT Wed Oct 26 2022

.SYNOPSIS...
Drier and slightly cooler air moves into the region through 
Friday. Chances of rain increase late in the weekend when 
another upper disturbance approaches from the west, with low 
level wedge conditions expected to develop.

&&

.NEAR TERM /THROUGH TONIGHT/...
High pressure begins to move in from the west overnight. 
Skies will be mostly clear for much of the night, and the
airmass will be turning drier once again. However with some 
low- level mixing due to a low-level jet through the night, it 
will not be an ideal radiational cooling set up, so temps will 
be more affected by cool air advection. Latest guidance remains 
consistent with projected lows tonight in the upper 40s to lower
50s. Some moisture around h85 near and to the north of the 
secondary back door boundary could provide some potential for 
some clouds mainly NE and E FA tonight.

&&

.SHORT TERM /THURSDAY THROUGH SATURDAY/... 
Surface high pressure builds into the Great Lakes and Northeast
U.S. through the end of this week. The position of the surface 
high will lead to persistent onshore flow across The Midlands 
and CSRA and a cool air "wedge." Temperatures will decrease to 
below normal levels due to the wedge and by Friday and Saturday 
highs will be in the mid 60s north to lower 70s south.

&&

.LONG TERM /SATURDAY NIGHT THROUGH WEDNESDAY/...
A wedge of cool air over The Midlands and CSRA will gradually 
erode early next week as a slow moving upper level trough 
approaches the region. Expect a chance of showers Sunday through
Monday with the passage of this system. The best chance for
significant rainfall accumulation with this system should remain
across the Southern Appalachians. 

High pressure aloft gradually builds behind the above mentioned 
system which results in a return to dry weather and a warming
trend

&&

.AVIATION /00Z THURSDAY THROUGH MONDAY/...
A drier air mass is building into the region. There is a weak 
secondary cold front/trough moving through the region around 09z
and winds should shift from north to northeast with a few 
strato-cumulus clouds possible especially by 12z. The overall 
consensus guidance is suggesting VFR ceilings with lower 
ceiling probabilities higher to the east. With the boundary 
layer winds around 25 kts, fog not a concern. Scattered strato- 
cumulus expected through the day but may go broken at times 
especially near OGB. Cloud bases should rise a bit in the 
afternoon. 

EXTENDED AVIATION OUTLOOK...Chance for MVFR ceiling 
restrictions Thursday night and early Friday. Increasing chances
for MVFR ceiling restrictions developing Saturday. Good chance 
of rain with restrictions expected Saturday night through Sunday
night as a low level wedge pattern develops, with IFR expected.
Clouds and wedge could be slow to erode Monday/Tuesday.

&&

.CAE WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
GA...None.
SC...None.

&&

$$
