190 
FXUS62 KCAE 260814
AFDCAE

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Columbia SC
414 AM EDT Wed Oct 26 2022

.SYNOPSIS...
A weak front will cross into the region this morning, with scattered 
light showers possible. Dry weather is expected behind the front 
through Friday. Chances of rain increase again late in the weekend 
when another upper disturbance approaches from the west.

&&

.NEAR TERM /THROUGH TONIGHT/...
The upper level cutoff low centered over southeastern Missouri 
will continue lifting off to the northeast overnight. The trough
axis south of the cutoff will help to push a prefrontal trough 
into our region late tonight. Moisture increases ahead of this
surface trough after midnight, helping to push some showers towards
the cwa. Best dynamics remain well north, and mainly expecting 
a line of scattered showers with an isolated thunderstorm possible.
QPF amounts still look to remain light. The best timing for the
line entering the western cwa still appears to be centered around
09z, with the bulk of the weakening activity then exiting off 
to the east by 12z. With an increase in clouds cover and winds 
later tonight, temperatures will drop into the lower to mid 50s.

&&

.SHORT TERM /THURSDAY THROUGH FRIDAY NIGHT/...
Quiet weather expected during this time period. Synoptic pattern is 
expected to remain fairly straight forward, with this period setting 
the stage for more active weather over the weekend. Shortwave from 
today will quickly depart northeastward, with rising heights and 
ridging following across the region. Area of strong confluence in 
the mid-levels will pass over the northeastern US and will help to 
establish a strong surface high pressure. This will begin to extend 
southward towards our region on Thursday and Friday, with easterly 
and northeasterly flow leading to afternoon highs dropping slightly 
both days. Expect mid 70s on Thursday and low 70s on Friday. Dry 
weather is expected, though, as PWs will still be below 1" on both 
days. Overnight lows will end up in the low and mid 50s. 

&&

.LONG TERM /SATURDAY THROUGH TUESDAY/...
More active weather is expected to unfold over the weekend as a 
closed 500 hPa low approaches from the west. This will be a deep 
closed-low across the mid-south, and will open up into a negatively 
tilted trough pushing into the OH Valley through Monday of next 
week. This will push broad southwesterly flow across our region, 
allowing for PWs to rise into the 1.3"-1.5" range on Sunday. In 
conjunction with this will be a strong (1028-1030mb) across the 
northeastern US beneath convergent mid and upper level flow. This 
will continue surface ridging that will be established on Thursday 
and Friday, with in-situ wedging expected at least on Saturday and 
Sunday. This will be aided by a slow moving subtropical low across 
the western Atlantic which will help maintain northeasterly surface 
flow across the Carolinas. The combination of southwesterly flow 
aloft, strong surface ridging, and increasing moisture will lead to 
a fairly cloudy and potentially wet weekend. Temps are expected to 
be below normal, with highs only in the upper 60s and low 70s on 
Saturday. Sunday looks to be the most wedge-like day, with 
northeasterly flow and rainfall expected. I think higher QPF will be 
to our west, with ensembles shifting the higher probabilities of 
>0.5" of QPF to the west. Even still, the synoptic set up is 
favorable for rainfall on Sunday as the trough axis approaches from 
the west. PoPs are high chance to likely across the region on 
Sunday, and I have temps only getting to the mid 60s on Sunday given 
the wedge flow. Lows will be fairly elevated given the widespread 
cloud cover both days. By Monday, another shortwave will dig into 
the base of the trough and keep the trough axis to our west. Despite 
this, best moisture will shift to our north and east and keep precip 
chances a bit lower. Even still, we should see some showers as the 
larger scale trough axis approaches. I would guess that we will 
start to scour out the wedge, but guidance is usually a bit too 
quick scouring wedges. So tended towards the NBM 25th percentiles 
for temps (as I did on Sat/Sun as well; keeping in line with the 
previous forecast's mentality). We should be clear of this by 
Tuesday, with dry air and rising heights approaching on Wednesday. 
Temps will get back towards seasonal norms by that point. 

&&

.AVIATION /08Z WEDNESDAY THROUGH SUNDAY/...
Occasional MVFR conditions this morning as a front passes through 
the region.

Winds have been light and variable to calm tonight, and should 
continue as such early this morning. Approaching front will increase 
low level cloud cover from west to east through sunrise with some 
MVFR cigs expected mainly after 26/12z. Some brief fog is possible 
mainly in the coastal plain through about 29/12Z, with impacts 
likeliest at the OGB terminal. Surface winds gradually increase as 
the front approaches, limiting overall fog impacts through much of 
the Midlands and CSRA.

A broken line of SHRA is expected to push across the region in the 
26/11Z to 26/17Z time frame. Behind the front, WLY/SWLY surface wind 
increases to 8-12 kts with gusts to 20 kts possible this afternoon. 
from the west-southwest and become gusty into the afternoon. Quick 
improvements expected this afternoon with cloud decks lifting to SKC 
this evening and continuing overnight. Wind speeds decrease to less 
than 5 kts as well.


EXTENDED AVIATION OUTLOOK...No significant impacts to aviation 
expected through Thursday. Chances for ceiling restrictions could 
increase starting Thursday night into Friday and continue this 
weekend.

&&

.CAE WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
GA...None.
SC...None.

&&

$$
SYNOPSIS...
NEAR TERM...
SHORT TERM...
LONG TERM...
AVIATION...
