041 
FXUS62 KCAE 261755
AFDCAE

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Columbia SC
155 PM EDT Wed Oct 26 2022

.SYNOPSIS...
A weak front will cross the region this afternoon, followed by
another weak dry surface boundary tonight. This will lead to
slightly cooler and drier air filtering into the region through
Friday. Chances of rain increase late in the weekend when 
another upper disturbance approaches from the west, with low 
level wedge conditions expected to develop. 

&&

.NEAR TERM /THROUGH TONIGHT/...
Upper and surface lows well to our north, will continue pushing
NE into E CAN. Weak surface boundary and associated dewpoint 
gradient currently pushing east into the CSRA and will continue 
to push east this afternoon, mainly through the central and 
southern FA, while another boundary to our north associated with
high pressure building into the Midwest back doors south into 
our FA tonight. Expect gradual clearing of cloud cover most 
areas this afternoon. Diurnal insolation will help counteract 
weak cool air advection, with max temps this afternoon near 70 
north to upper 70s to possibly near 80 central and south. With a
W to SW flow aloft, it will take a little while for the cooler 
air to get over the mountains, but will eventually do so late 
today and tonight as surface high pressure builds east into the 
Midwest, and low level winds veer to N and NE and provide some 
additional weak cool air advection behind the secondary back 
door boundary. Radiational cooling tonight will be impeded but a
25 knot NE boundary layer flow, so temps will be more affected 
by cool air advection. Latest guidance remains consistent with 
projected lows tonight in the upper 40s to lower 50s. Some 
moisture around h85 near and to the north of the secondary back 
door boundary could provide some potential for some clouds 
mainly NE and E FA tonight. 

&&

.SHORT TERM /THURSDAY THROUGH SATURDAY/...
Surface high pressure builds into the Great Lakes and Northeast U.S. 
through the end of this week. The position of the surface high will 
lead to persistent onshore flow across The Midlands and CSRA and a 
cool air "wedge." Temperatures will decrease to below normal 
levels due to the wedge and by Friday and Saturday highs will be
in the mid 60s north to lower 70s south.

&&

.LONG TERM /SATURDAY NIGHT THROUGH WEDNESDAY/...
A wedge of cool air over The Midlands and CSRA will gradually 
erode early next week as a slow moving upper level trough 
approaches the region. Expect a chance of showers Sunday through
Monday with the passage of this system. The best chance for
significant rainfall accumulation with this system should remain
across the Southern Appalachians. 

High pressure aloft gradually builds behind the above mentioned 
system which results in a return to dry weather and a warming
trend

&&

.AVIATION /18Z WEDNESDAY THROUGH MONDAY/...
Some MVFR CIGs lingering in the near term, but a return to VFR 
expected this afternoon, as drier air filters into the FA behind a 
weak surface boundary. W to WNW winds this afternoon will veer to N 
and NE tonight as surface high pressure builds into the Midwest and 
a secondary back door boundary moves into the FA from the N/NE. NE 
boundary layer winds will stay up overnight, with a 25 knot jet 
projected at 1-2kft. This, along with the drier low level air, will 
preclude any fog and low stratus concerns. However, some guidance 
indicating some moisture around h85 near and to the north of the 
secondary back door boundary could provide some potential for some 
clouds tonight and Thursday, possibly high end MVFR. At this time, 
will indicate some clouds but keep bases VFR. 

EXTENDED AVIATION OUTLOOK...Chance for MVFR CIG restrictions Thu 
nt/early Friday. Increasing chances for MVFR CIG restrictions 
developing Saturday. Good chance of rain with CIG and VSBY 
restrictions expected Saturday night through Sunday night as a low 
level wedge pattern develops, with IFR expected. Clouds and wedge 
could be slow to erode Mon/Tue. 

&&

.CAE WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
GA...None.
SC...None.

&&

$$
