252 
FXUS62 KILM 261130
AFDILM

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Wilmington NC
730 AM EDT Wed Oct 26 2022

.SYNOPSIS...
Weak high pressure to slide off the coast today, followed by a 
cold frontal passage tonight. Modest to strong high pressure 
will then fill back in over the region through the end of the 
work-week and into the weekend. Unsettled weather to affect the
area the latter part of the weekend into early next week. 
Todays highs will run close to 10 degrees above normal, after
the cold front, temperatures will drop back to at or slightly
above normal.

&&

.UPDATE...
Raised a Dense Fog Advisory for NC zones through 10 AM.

&&

.NEAR TERM /THROUGH TONIGHT/...
Widespread dense fog this morning will begin to dissipate after 
sunrise, perhaps lifting into a brief period of stratus. High
clouds will begin to push offshore this morning with lingering 
fog dissipating quickly as southerly winds increase. A cold 
front will approach the area tomorrow. The front is likely to 
remain dry as it moves through the area with only a small chance
of a shower along the I-95 corridor. PoPs remain below 10% 
throughout the day as the mid-level low with the front lifts 
northward into the Great Lakes region. The mid-level cloud cover
is likely to be the only obvious signal that the front has 
passed before southerly winds become westerly and northerly this
evening. 

Drier air and winds around 10 mph overnight should limit fog 
coverage for the first time in a few evenings. Low temperatures 
tonight will drop quickly into the low to mid 50s.

&&

.SHORT TERM /THURSDAY THROUGH FRIDAY NIGHT/...
1025+ mb high pressure centered over the Great Lakes Thu will 
transition to the NE states and grow stronger 1030+ mb by Fri.
Ridging will extend across the area from its transitioning 
center thru the period. Expect CAA Thu and a secondary CAA surge
by Fri. The sfc pg will remain well tightened thru the period 
and combined with CAA will keep an ongoing modest NE wind 
especially during the thermodynamic heating portion of the day.
RH time height series of various models indicate moisture to 
remain avbl below 8H which means stratocu or cu clouds possible 
during the day and at night especially along the coast due to 
periodic onshore movement of the stratocu deck. No pcpn 
expected this period. Temps generally will run at or slightly 
above normal, especially at night with winds staying active just
enough and any cloud decks across the region.

&&

.LONG TERM /SATURDAY THROUGH TUESDAY/...
For Sat, the FA will lie between the Gulf Coast closed upper low
and it's attendant sfc low and the subtropical low centered 
well offshore from the Carolina Coasts. At the same time, strong
ridging will extend across the area from the NE States. Will
begin to include more clouds as deeper moisture begins to 
spread overhead by late Sat. Kept pcpn limited to just outside 
the FA thru Sat. For Sun thru Mon, progressive flow aloft will 
push the weakening subtropical low off to the ENE, further out 
into the Atlantic. The Gulf Coast upper low will open up and 
push off to the NE. Main dynamics stay west and north of the FA 
but plenty of moisture and weak embedded vorts or s/w trofs, 
push across the area later Sun thru Mon. this will require POPs 
in the fcst for generally showers with an isolated tstorm still 
not out of the question but not enough to include attm. Weak 
cold front pushes across the area later Mon into Tue with 
moisture limited and at this point will include cloudiness 
accompanying it. Temps will run 1 to possibly 2 categories above
normal especially with night time lows. Clouds and pcpn may 
keep temps actually at or below normal during Sun.

&&

.AVIATION /12Z WEDNESDAY THROUGH SUNDAY/...
Fog inland is becoming more patchy as mid-level clouds move into
the region ahead of a cold front. After dense fog and LIFR/VLIFR
across inland NC/SC this morning, skies should clear quickly
after sunrise with the increasing southerly winds. Front will 
be moving through the area towards end of TAF period. Expect dry
weather with mid-level clouds and northerly winds this afternoon
and evening.

Extended Outlook... Mainly VFR expected through the period with
periodic MVFR/IFR restrictions possible Wed morning due to low 
clouds and/or fog.

&&

.MARINE...
Through Tonight: 
Southerly winds increase today ahead of an approaching cold
front. Southerly winds this afternoon to 10-15 knots with gusts
up to 20 knots. As the front moves offshore, winds will become
westerly this evening and northerly by tomorrow morning.
Northerly winds over the nearshore waters will become 15-20
knots with gusts up to 25 knots. Seas increase to 3-4 feet by
Thursday morning. 

Thursday Through Sunday:
Initial CAA and tightened sfc pg resulting from a 1025+ mb high
pressure ridging in from the Great lakes will result in modest
NE winds with a few gusts to 25 kt. The high will grow stronger
1030+ mb and re-orient itself across the NE States Fri thru Sat
with ridging extending down the East Coast. A secondary CAA
surge Fri into Sat will combine with the tightened sfc pg to
produce SCA conditions. The SCA may extend into or thru Sun
depending on what transpires with an offshore subtropical low
and positioning/orientation/strength of the ridging down the
East Coast. NBM well overdone with the pcpn chances, stayed
closer to a drier but still isolated showers a possibility
especially just offshore, beyond 20 nm. Seas generally will be
governed by NE-ENE waves with periods generally 6 to 9 seconds.
An underlying hier period wave produced by the offshore
subtropical low remains possible later this weekend.

&&

.ILM WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
SC...None.
NC...Dense Fog Advisory until 10 AM EDT this morning for NCZ087-096-
     099-105>110.
     Coastal Flood Advisory until 2 PM EDT this afternoon for 
     NCZ107.
MARINE...None.

&&

$$
SYNOPSIS...ILM
UPDATE...MBB
NEAR TERM...21
SHORT TERM...DCH 
LONG TERM...DCH 
AVIATION...21 
MARINE...DCH/21
