086 
FXUS62 KILM 262339
AFDILM

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Wilmington NC
739 PM EDT Wed Oct 26 2022

.SYNOPSIS...
Warm day today, followed by a cold frontal passage tonight
bringing temperatures back down near normal. Modest to strong 
high pressure will then fill back in over the region through the
remainder of the week. Unsettled weather will affect the area 
into early next week.

&&

.NEAR TERM /THROUGH THURSDAY/...
Warm southwesterly flow will continue ahead of a cold front along 
with decent amount of mid level moisture through this evening. Weak 
returns on radar may produce a few drops across the area, but 
overall the front will move through with mainly some clouds and a 
wind shift. Expect clouds to thin through this evening with wind 
shift later this evening into early overnight hours as the cold 
front passes through. Winds will shift around to the W-NW behind 
front and then will continue to veer to the N-NE through Thurs. 
Soundings show moisture stuck beneath inversion about 3 to 5k ft 
through thurs aftn. Otherwise very dry air mass with pcp water 
values dropping from 1.4 this evening down less than an inch by 
Thurs. 

Included a brief period of patchy fog, but winds will kick up and 
moisture will drop as front moves through limiting any further fog 
development. Low temperatures tonight will drop quickly into the low 
to mid 50s by morning and will be a good 5 degrees cooler for highs 
on Thurs. Temps may end up being even cooler if clouds remain thick 
enough through Thurs.

&&

.SHORT TERM /THURSDAY NIGHT THROUGH FRIDAY NIGHT/...
High pressure will ridge into the area through the period
resulting in generally fair weather with breezy conditions. 
Lows each night will generally run 50 to 55 with highs Friday in
the upper 60s to lower 70s.

&&

.LONG TERM /SATURDAY THROUGH WEDNESDAY/...
Low pressure off the southeast coast and another low over the
Gulf Coast could affect the area during the first 3 days of the
period while high pressure continues to ridge into the area 
from the north. Ultimately, the Gulf Coast low will move off 
the U.S east coast by Tuesday with high pressure to follow for 
the remainder of the forecast period. 

The result will be unsettled weather Saturday through Monday
with potential for a some light rain, especially Sunday into 
Monday. Rainfall amounts, if any, are expected to be light attm 
but clouds could be abundant. Conditions will improve for 
Tuesday and Wednesday. 

Temperatures through the period will generally be within a few
degrees of seasonal normals Saturday and Sunday before trending
upward a little for the remainder of the period, particularly
during daylight hours.

&&

.AVIATION /00Z THURSDAY THROUGH MONDAY/...
Scattered mid clouds around 4-6 kft currently across the area
ahead of an approaching cold front near the I-95 corridor. May
see a stray light shower or two along the front in SE NC 
through midnight. Patchy fog remains possible ahead of the front
for coastal areas before northerly winds pick up behind the
front, but confidence too low for TAF inclusion. Gusty north
winds develop overnight, remaining around 10kts with gusts to
15-20 kts tomorrow from the NNE. Low level moisture is expected
to become trapped below a subsidence inversion tomorrow mainly
closer to the coast, with best chance for MVFR ceilings around 
2kft at ILM early tomorrow until possibly midday. 

Extended Outlook...Mainly VFR expected through the period.
Moisture will increase from the south by Sunday with possible
MVFR ceilings.

&&

.MARINE...
Through Thursday:
Southwest winds will remain around 5 kts or so ahead of cold 
front into this evening, but will shift around to the NW to N 
behind front overnight and will continue to veer to the N-NE 
through Thurs. Winds will increase and become gusty with CAA and
tightening of gradient as high builds down from the Great 
Lakes. A Small Craft Advisory has been issued starting Thurs 
afternoon as winds and seas increase. Seas 2 to 3 ft to start 
will increase up to 3 to 5 ft through Thurs aftn, increasing 
further into late Thurs with mainly shorter period wind waves. 
Winds will increase out of the N-NE up to 20 kts with gusts up 
to 25 kts through Thurs aftn.

Thursday night Through Monday:
We look to be in a prolonged period of potential small craft
conditions as high pressure ridges in from the north. A surface
low off the southeast coast may enhance the gradient into
Saturday before conditions slowly improve Sunday into Monday. 

Expect NE winds of 15 to 20 KT, perhaps 25 KT at times, Thursday
night into Sunday before winds diminish to 5 to 10 KT by Sunday
evening. Speeds of this nature will continue into Monday as 
directions veer to the SW. Seas will run 4 to 6 FT Thu night 
into Sun before subsiding to 2 to 4 FT for Monday.

&&

.ILM WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
SC...None.
NC...None.
MARINE...Small Craft Advisory from 4 PM Thursday to 8 AM EDT Sunday for 
     AMZ250-252-254-256.

&&

$$
SYNOPSIS...ILM
NEAR TERM...RGZ
SHORT TERM...31
LONG TERM...31
AVIATION...VAO
MARINE...RGZ/31
