190 
FXUS62 KILM 260540
AFDILM

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Wilmington NC
140 AM EDT Wed Oct 26 2022

.SYNOPSIS...
Weak high pressure prevails across the area through early 
Wednesday, followed by a weak cold frontal passage Wednesday 
night. High pressure will then fill back in over the region 
through the end of the week with more unsettled weather possible
during the weekend or early next week. High and low 
temperatures will run at or above normal.

&&

.UPDATE...
Fog is beginning to develop over the area with stratus
attempting to build along the coast. Due to the high clouds,
development has not been uniform across the region and will
continue to be patchy as it spreads overnight. 

&&

.NEAR TERM /THROUGH THURSDAY/...
High pressure that had been ridging in from the north is currently 
losing influence locally as evident by the veering of our very light 
winds. Tonight's fog forecast is a bit challenging. With the change 
in the surface flow persistence is out and guidance isn't in 
tremendous agreement. One extreme is the WRF, which slams the area 
not unlike last night. More tempered solutions like the GFS focus 
more on inland areas. Went more with the latter with some help also 
from some blended models that believably show a strip of heaviest 
fog from Bladen to Williamsburg from NE to SW, areas where the fog 
held on the longest this morning. The light southerly winds paired 
with continued ridging aloft on Wednesday will allow most places to 
warm to near 80, almost 10 degrees above climatology.

&&

.SHORT TERM /THURSDAY NIGHT/...
Expect a dry short term period as a cold front pushes offshore 
Wednesday night. Some guidance wants to hang on to some 
lingering showers through the period, but feel this is overdone 
as strong sfc high pressure builds in from the NW and the air 
above 800mb is very dry. Otherwise...breezy NNE winds Thursday 
under a partly/mostly sunny sky. High temps in the mid/upr 
70s...slightly above normal for late October.

&&

.LONG TERM /FRIDAY THROUGH TUESDAY/...
Long term period starts off dry as sfc high pressure continues to 
ridge down in from the north, then transitions to a bit more of an 
unsettled pattern. Culprit will be two low pressure 
systems...one subtropical sfc low well off the coast, and 
another associated with approaching upr-level energy. 
Location/timing of these features, and their potential 
interaction, makes it tricky to time best precip chances. For 
now will keep PoPs relatively low (20-40%) Saturday through 
Monday and fine tune as we get closer in time. As for 
temps...expect readings close to normal...mainly low/mid 70s. 
Undercut guidance a bit due to the high/wedge setup especially 
early in the period.

&&

.AVIATION /06Z WEDNESDAY THROUGH SUNDAY/...
Fog is developing across the region at this time and is far 
from uniform with ground fog along the coast and dense fog 
attempting to develop inland. This will continue to be the case 
through tomorrow morning despite the cloud cover. Patchy fog has
resulted and the entire area is inundated with patchy LIFR, 
IFR, and areas of VFR. Given the uncertainty created by the high
clouds, confidence is low in exact trends overnight. Expect 
gradual worsening of fog, especially inland with much lower 
confidence along the coast. Fog/stratus will not linger as long 
tomorrow, with southerly winds increasing in the morning ahead 
of an approaching dry cold front. Front will be moving through 
the area towards end of TAF period. Dry with mid-level clouds
and a surface wind shift from southerly to northerly. 

Extended Outlook... Mainly VFR expected through the period with
periodic MVFR/IFR restrictions possible Wed morning due to low 
clouds and/or fog.

&&

.MARINE...
Through Wednesday: 
Winds about as light as can be with ridge of high pressure to 
our north retreating, leaving behind a weak pressure gradient. 
Winds will turn to the south late in the period well ahead of a 
cold front, but speeds stay capped at 10kt. Spectral wave 
bulletins still showing peak power AOA 9-10seconds indicating 
swell. This energy has been coming in from the east and it 
should continue through the period.

Wednesday Night Through Sunday:
A cold front will cross the waters Wednesday night. CAA is not
particularly strong on Thursday so mainly expecting just 10-20 
kt winds as they shift from N to NE through the day, with 2-3 ft
seas. Conditions then become more hazardous Thursday night 
through the weekend as moderate NE flow develops in response to 
strong sfc high pressure building in to the north and a 
subtropical low forming well offshore. Winds 15-25 kt with seas 
4-6 ft, up to 7 ft at times, so a SCA headline is likely. 
Dominant periods also increase through this timeframe...from 5-6
sec on Friday to 9-10 sec by Sunday.

&&

.ILM WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
SC...None.
NC...None.
MARINE...None.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...ILM
UPDATE...VAO
NEAR TERM...MBB
SHORT TERM...MAS
LONG TERM...MAS
AVIATION...21
MARINE...MAS/MBB
