262 
FXUS63 KFGF 260308
AFDFGF

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Grand Forks ND
1008 PM CDT Tue Oct 25 2022

.UPDATE...
Issued at 1008 PM CDT Tue Oct 25 2022

Not much change since last update...Temperatures continue to
slowly fall due to cloud cover. Expect cloudy conditions and lows
in the 20s, closer to 30 degrees tonight. Forecast remains on 
track.


UPDATE Issued at 630 PM CDT Tue Oct 25 2022

Clouds continue to linger over the majority of eastern North
Dakota and northwestern Minnesota this evening. Thus, temperatures
have not dropped as quickly as they would under clear skies. We
will continue to monitor the situation, as additional cloud cover
could make overnight lows warmer. Forecast remains on track.

&&

.SHORT TERM...(This evening through Wednesday night)
Issued at 324 PM CDT Tue Oct 25 2022

Clouds the primary concern for the overnight and their impact on
temperatures the biggest question mark in the forecast. Model
guidance remains fairly confident on clearing skies out overnight
with temps falling into the 20s for lows. If this clearing doesn't
happen then lows won't fall into the mid 20s and temps will hold
closer to 30 overnight. Tomorrow will see light south winds 
develop with a weak SFC ridge axis traversing the region and
afternoon highs in the 40s and low 50s in the southern valley.
Increasing clouds tomorrow night as a weak wave approaches will
help keep temps above freezing in the southern half of the area 
for lows Wednesday night. 

.LONG TERM...(Thursday through Tuesday)
Issued at 324 PM CDT Tue Oct 25 2022

An upper level wave moving across the southern United States brings 
a surge of warm air advection Thursday. There is a slight chance for 
showers during the morning and afternoon, thanks to the WAA. Any 
precipitation amounts would be light as a majority of the moisture 
remains far to the south. Some breezy conditions are possible at 
times as the trough moves through Thursday and Friday morning. 
Otherwise, we are predominantly in a zonal flow throughout the long 
term bringing dry weather conditions to the area. Temperatures 
remain seasonal, with Friday being the warmest day as highs reach 
the upper 50s to lower 60s. 

Guidance does suggest the zonal flow sticking around the northern 
plains through the end of the long term, but a slow transition a SW 
flow is noted in cluster analysis. This looks to potentially develop 
sometime early next week. The exact timing of this is unknown as 
continued ensemble runs keep pushing it further out into November.

&&

.AVIATION...(For the 00Z TAFS through 00Z Wednesday evening)
Issued at 1008 PM CDT Tue Oct 25 2022

MVFR conditions remain as this cloud deck refuses to lift. Clouds
will lift back into VFR criteria heading into Wednesday 
afternoon, if not before. Winds will shift to be more westerly 
overnight, and then southerly as we move into Wednesday. These 
southerly winds will remain lighter, around 10 - 15 MPH
sustained. Another cloud deck will begin to enter into the area
Wednesday afternoon and evening, but this one appears to be 
slightly higher and mostly in VFR territory.

&&

.FGF WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
ND...None.
MN...None.
&&

$$

UPDATE...AK
SHORT TERM...JK
LONG TERM...Spender
AVIATION...AK
