072 
FXUS63 KFGF 262000
AFDFGF

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Grand Forks ND
300 PM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

.SHORT TERM...(This evening through Thursday night)
Issued at 300 PM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

Forecast challenges will be if we get any precip in our southern
counties tonight, along with temperatures throughout the period.

Water vapor shows split flow aloft with the cut off upper low
spinning over the Intermountain West. This cut off will stay well
to our south tonight and tomorrow morning, but a weak
lead/northern branch shortwave will be moving through SD/Nebraska
area. This weak system could bring a few light rain showers to 
our southern counties, with the formally drier HRRR run now
showing some decent returns into west central MN. Any amounts
reaching the ground will be very light, and with all rain expected
impacts will be negligible. Further north, skies will have less
cloud cover tonight and southwest winds could bring some patchy
fog from northwestern and north central ND into our area. SREF
probabilities have around 40 percent chance of less than a mile
visibility for our northwestern counties, so will continue to keep
a patchy fog mention going.

South to southwesterly surface winds providing warm air advection
and good mixing should help boost temperatures into the mid 50s
tomorrow, with some slightly cooler temps in west central MN where
clouds will hang on longer. Southwesterly surface winds will
continue into Thursday night and should help keep temps above
freezing even with decreasing clouds. 


.LONG TERM...(Friday through Wednesday)
Issued at 300 PM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

Overview...

The long term period looks to remain on the quiet side, with 
precipitation chances increasing toward late next week. Otherwise, 
seasonably mild weather is expected to persist from the weekend into 
early next week as well.

Discussion...

The upper level flow pattern looks to be unwavering through the 
weekend with split flow over the CONUS resulting in generally zonal 
flow over the northern Plains. A transient period of upper level 
ridging is expected on Friday ahead of this as a trough closes off 
over the southern CONUS. This will result in what looks to be the 
warmest day of the extended period on Friday, with widespread highs 
in the upper 50s to low 60s. The weekend will then feature a 
continuation of quiet weather as zonal flow sets up aloft. This flow 
pattern looks to persist into early next week. High temperatures 
look to fall a few degrees from Fridays high temperatures, but are 
still expected to remain well above normal for this time of year, 
generally in the 50s, with a few low 60s possible across the 
southern FA. 

Tuesday is when global consensus begins to introduce a shift in the 
upper level pattern. As large scale troughing builds in over the 
western CONUS, southwesterly flow aloft is expected to set up over 
the northern Plains. Despite this, quiet weather is anticipated on 
Tuesday, with high temperatures once again firmly in the 50s. 

Beyond Tuesday, there are signals within ensemble guidance 
indicating that the longwave trough building in over the western 
CONUS will eventually travel eastward. Ensemble cluster analysis is 
largely in good agreement on the progression of this feature, with 
some discrepancies on exact location and timing. There are still a 
lot of questions surrounding the progression of the wave, however, 
as well as any precipitation potential, timing, and location at this 
time. While far from a guarantee, given prominent signals within 
ensemble guidance, it would be remiss to not at least mention the 
possibility for increasingly active weather toward the middle/end of 
next week. 

&&

.AVIATION...(For the 18Z TAFS through 18Z Thursday afternoon)
Issued at 1232 PM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

Some MVFR ceilings continuing across the MN airports, with lower
VFR stratus also at KDVL and KFAR. The cloud cover will continue
to dissipate this afternoon, and all sites should be VFR before
sunset. Light and variable winds will steady out of the south at
10 to 15 kts by the end of the period. 

&&

.FGF WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
ND...None.
MN...None.
&&

$$

SHORT TERM...JR
LONG TERM...Rick
AVIATION...JR
