662 
FXUS63 KFGF 260912
AFDFGF

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Grand Forks ND
412 AM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

.SHORT TERM...(Today through Thursday)
Issued at 328 AM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

Water vapor shows a 500 mb short wave moving east thru far SE
Mantioba and far NW MN early this morning. This short wave is
subtle but has been enough to produce a few flurries in NW MN.
Will maintain a few flurries this morning in the northeast fcst
area along the track of the short wave (Bemidji-Roseau-Baudette). 

Clouds today will be the main forecast challenge. Otherwise from
weather impacts will be minimal, outside of aviation. Thick deck
of stratocu covers parts of eastern Saskatchewan thru southern
Manitoba and into NE ND and northern MN. Trends have been for a
slow east progression of clearing from Bottineau to Devils Lake to
Cooperstown and Wahpeton overnight. But there are also scattered
clouds within the clearer region. With cool 500 mb temps still
present in northern RRV and NW MN today feel like chances for sun
are limited and upped sky cover over what short term model
guidance suggests. Devils Lake to Fargo and into west central MN
on the edge of the thicker clouds should see a bit more clearing
today. Highs today will be low 40s in thicker cloud area to low
50s in mix cloud/sun areas. Winds today light as high pressure
moves overhead. 

Tonight should see clearing or at least partial clearing work east
as the 500 mb trough begins to exit. 850 mb RH values also
diminish in NE ND/NW MN.  

Meanwhile clouds will move northeast into SE ND and WC MN
Wednesday night and into Thursday morning associated with a weak
500 mb short wave moving east along the SD/ND border. This short
wave will produce some rain showers that will sneak into far SE ND
and WC MN late tonight into Thursday but as we go into Thursday
aftn the short wave weakens as the main 500 mb energy is shifting
southwest to an upper low moving into Texas. Overall rain amounts
with this look very light (a few hundredths) and compared to past
days the chances for rain is more limited to our far south fcst
area.  

.LONG TERM...(Thursday night through Tuesday)
Issued at 328 AM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022


Widespread hazardous weather is unlikely (less than 10%) through at 
least next Tuesday. A pattern change toward more active weather is 
possible near mid to late next week (between next Wed - Fri), 
possibly bringing some level of impacts to the Northern Plains and 
Upper Midwest.

Friday - Tuesday:

There is strong consensus between ensemble guidance of generally 
split zonal flow across much of the CONUS. Within the northern 
branch jet, moisture conveyors/rivers point into the PacNW with much 
of its moisture precipitating over the higher elevations. This only 
leaves some high altitude moisture into the Northern Plains after 
traversing the Intermountain West/Northern Rockies. Thus chances for 
precip are very low (less than 10%) Friday through Monday. Subtle 
ridging aloft and sfc high pressure/weak pressure gradient should 
also help keep conditions calm and more or less clear (save high 
level clouds from aforementioned high altitude moisture). This 
regime will also promote average to above average temps, with 
daytime temps generally in the 50s and 60s.

Wednesday and beyond:

Most guidance amplifies the pattern getting into mid to late next 
week, with various degrees of amplitude and timing of Rossby wave 
packets traversing continental NoAM. To an extent, all cluster 
analyses offer a longwave trough passage across the central tier of 
the CONUS between Wednesday and Friday. This would not only promote 
forcing for lift and precipitation production, but also help advect 
moisture poleward east of the Rockies. While further details on 
precip amounts, type, and location are unclear, this type of signal 
within the long term points toward a more active pattern within the 
Northern Plains and Upper Midwest, including the potential some 
degree of impacts.


&&

.AVIATION...(For the 00Z TAFS through 00Z Wednesday evening)
Issued at 1008 PM CDT Tue Oct 25 2022

MVFR conditions remain as this cloud deck refuses to lift. Clouds
will lift back into VFR criteria heading into Wednesday 
afternoon, if not before. Winds will shift to be more westerly 
overnight, and then southerly as we move into Wednesday. These 
southerly winds will remain lighter, around 10 - 15 MPH
sustained. Another cloud deck will begin to enter into the area
Wednesday afternoon and evening, but this one appears to be 
slightly higher and mostly in VFR territory.

&&

.FGF WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
ND...None.
MN...None.
&&

$$

SHORT TERM...Riddle
LONG TERM...CJ
AVIATION...AK
