162 
FXUS63 KUNR 262303
AFDUNR

Area Forecast Discussion For Western SD and Northeastern WY
National Weather Service Rapid City SD
503 PM MDT Wed Oct 26 2022

.DISCUSSION...(This Evening Through Wednesday)
Issued at 142 PM MDT Wed Oct 26 2022

At this hour WV imagery depicts trough over the northern Rockies 
with nearly zonal flow over the Northern Plains. Temperatures this
afternoon are in the mid 40s to 50s and most of the CWA sits 
under a thin blanket of cirrus. As we head into the evening hours,
the aforementioned trough progresses eastward and deepens, 
digging into Colorado and becoming a closed upper low over the 
Southern Plains. Closer to home: SFC low develops over southwestern
SD in the overnight hours. With the minimal moisture in this 
system - chances for any appreciable precip remain low. A few 
isolated rain showers may develop over the western and south- 
central SD plains this afternoon into the overnight hours. A stray
snow shower or two in the higher elevations of the Black Hills 
can't be ruled out. 

Split flow pattern develops and lasts into the end of October with 
milder, near-to-above normal temperatures expected through the end 
of the week. Models show a quick moving impulse crossing the region 
this weekend. With moisture, again, remaining limited - there's a 
very low chance for any meaningful precipitation to come out of this 
system. The only sensible impacts being a sfc wind shift and 
increased cloudiness Friday/Saturday. With the dry weather and warm 
temperatures, elevated fire weather conditions may be possible 
Friday through Monday. Warm and dry weather continues into early 
next week where all indications are that Halloween will likely 
remain dry and relatively pleasant for trick-or-treaters. 

Looking ahead to the first week of November - GFS and Euro ensembles 
are in fairly good agreement of strong troughing over the western 
CONUS, signaling perhaps a more active start to November.

&&

.AVIATION...(For the 00Z TAFS Through 00Z Thursday Evening)
Issued At 501 PM MDT Wed Oct 26 2022

Isolated to scattered showers will occur this evening, mainly 
from the Black Hills into central South Dakota. Local MVFR 
conditions are possible with the showers. Otherwise, VFR
conditions expected through the period.

&&

.UNR WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
SD...None.
WY...None.
&&

$$

DISCUSSION...Wong
AVIATION...Helgeson
