395 
FXUS63 KUNR 260841
AFDUNR

Area Forecast Discussion For Western SD and Northeastern WY
National Weather Service Rapid City SD
241 AM MDT Wed Oct 26 2022

.DISCUSSION...(Today Through Tuesday)
Issued at 238 AM MDT Wed Oct 26 2022

Upper level analysis has a digging trough over the Pacific 
Northwest, with a weak shortwave trough extending southward from 
Central Canada into eastern Montana and western North Dakota. These 
two features are creating a zonal flow pattern across the forecast 
area. At the surface, a weak stationary boundary extends east to 
west across northern South Dakota/southern North Dakota, with high 
pressure over the central and northern Rockies. 

The Pacific Northwest trough will move into the Central Plains today 
and tonight, before wrapping up into a closed low and pushing 
southward into the southern Rockies/southern High Plains on 
Thursday. An area of frontogenesis will develop over the central and 
southern Black Hills, allowing for light precipitation and a few 
showers across the southeastern half/two-thirds of the forecast area 
later today and tonight. Overall, precipitation should be mainly 
rain over the plains, with snow showers over the Black Hills. Snow
may also mix with the rain across portions of south central South
Dakota early Thursday morning. 

A lingering shower or two is possible across far south central 
South Dakota Thursday morning, but overall clouds will decrease 
through the day with temperatures remaining cool, similar to 
today. 

Split flow then sets up for the end of the week with the Northern 
Plains seeing shortwave ridging and warm air advection, supporting 
mild temps into early next week (highs in the 60s). As for 
Halloween, right now the trick or treat forecast looks pretty 
good, with temps a little above seasonal averages and winds 
decreasing around sunset. However, the models are starting to show
a much colder and active weather pattern setting up for the first
half of November.

&&

.AVIATION...(For the 06Z TAFS Through 06Z Wednesday Night)
Issued At 1118 PM MDT Tue Oct 25 2022

VFR conditions are expected through the period. Gusty southeast 
winds will develop on the western SD plains Wednesday. Scattered 
rain showers will develop over southern SD Wednesday afternoon 
with VFR CIGS around 5kft, and then move northeast Wednesday
evening.

&&

.UNR WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
SD...None.
WY...None.
&&

$$

DISCUSSION...MLS
AVIATION...Helgeson
