850 
FXUS63 KUNR 260519
AFDUNR

Area Forecast Discussion For Western SD and Northeastern WY
National Weather Service Rapid City SD
1119 PM MDT Tue Oct 25 2022

.DISCUSSION...(This Evening Through Tuesday)
Issued at 140 PM MDT Tue Oct 25 2022

Semi-active westerly flow will persist through Thur with weak 
impulses offering low chances for mainly rain the next couple days
as well as sustained cooler flow. Weak upglide ongoing over the 
far SW with light returns on radar. Dry profiles will limit most 
activity there to virga or sprinkles at best. Retained low pops 
across the far SW into early evening. Skies will clear out this 
evening in between impulses with another cool night expected as 
lows fall into the 20s and few teens in areas away from terrain 
influences. Digging impulse will eject ENE into the central Plains
Wed with an area of FGEN precip expected to clip the SE third to 
half of the FA, mainly Wed evening. Any precip amounts will be 
light, fighting dry profiles. Have shifted pops into Wed afternoon
there given model trends for a faster ejection of the impulse. 
Cooler conds expected Wed with clouds and potential precip, esp 
over scentral SD, with seasonably cool conds continuing into Thur 
as well. Split flow then sets up for the end of the week with the 
Northern Plains seeing shortwave ridging and WAA, supporting mild 
temps into early next week (highs in the 60s). Growing indications
for deep upper trough into the western CONUS early next week, 
which looks to support a much colder and potentially active 
pattern later next week.

&&

.AVIATION...(For the 06Z TAFS Through 06Z Wednesday Night)
Issued At 1118 PM MDT Tue Oct 25 2022

VFR conditions are expected through the period. Gusty southeast 
winds will develop on the western SD plains Wednesday. Scattered 
rain showers will develop over southern SD Wednesday afternoon 
with VFR CIGS around 5kft, and then move northeast Wednesday
evening.

&&

.UNR WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
SD...None.
WY...None.
&&

$$

DISCUSSION...JC
AVIATION...Helgeson
