468 
FXUS62 KGSP 261738
AFDGSP

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Greenville-Spartanburg SC
138 PM EDT Wed Oct 26 2022

.SYNOPSIS...
Cool high pressure crossing the Great Lakes Thursday and Friday will 
bring cooler day time temperatures into the weekend.  Expect rain 
chances to increase again this weekend and into early next week as a 
low pressure system approaches from the Gulf states.  Drier weather 
and milder temperatures return on Tuesday after low pressure departs 
from our region.

&&

.NEAR TERM /THROUGH TONIGHT/...
As of 1100 am EDT Wednesday: Showers have at this point exited the
forecast area.  Can't rule out some continuing sprinkles on the
western slopes of the Appalachians on and near the NC-TN border, but
all major activity has ended for the morning.  Widespread low cloud
cover remains in the wake of the front despite a strengthening dry
conveyor belt...and hopes for a quick improvement in this morning's
conditions have been dashed.  Steady lowering of sfc dewpoints has
somewhat lagged the forecast, as top-down drying has resulted in
a PBL which remains saturated in many areas.

As the post-frontal regime takes hold, there will be enough
cold advection to allow max temps across the mountains to
top out several degrees below yesterday's readings, or right
around normal. Meanwhile, deep mixing along with an increasing
downslope component to the low level flow will offset the effects
of any cold advection outside the mountains, and max temps are
expected to warm to levels very similar to the past couple of
days, or perhaps a degree or two cooler in areas which see very
delayed clearing. Mostly clear skies tonight (with the exception
of a narrow band of lingering upslope clouds along the TN border)
along with weakening surface flow and lower dewpoints should allow
temps to cool to or slightly below normal in most areas.

&&

.SHORT TERM /THURSDAY THROUGH FRIDAY NIGHT/...
As of 200 AM EDT Wednesday: Expect the sensible weather to remain
quiet through the forecast period. Model guidance continue to push a
closed upper from the Four Corners region into the Southern Plains
through the end of the work week. In response to the closed low
moving into the Southern Plains, moist south to southwesterly flow
aloft will gradually pull into the southeastern CONUS Friday. At
the same time, surface high pressure will slide from the Great
Lakes region Thursday and set up over the northeastern CONUS by
Friday as it noses down the Appalachians. Expect mostly clear
skies until sometime Friday as mid-level clouds push in from the
southwest. With the position of the surface high, CAD will be in
the works, but good insolation will help temperatures Thursday
remain at or slightly above normal. Recent trends have come in
a little slower with the overall cloud cover on Friday, which
could give way to decent insolation during the daytime period,
which would ultimately keep temperatures near normal. Overnight
lows Thursday and Friday will be at or a few ticks above normal.

&&

.LONG TERM /SATURDAY THROUGH WEDNESDAY/...
As of 300 AM EDT Wednesday: The closed low will begin to track
towards the mid-MS Valley Saturday into Sunday before becoming
an open wave and eventually phasing into the northern jet stream
by Monday. Stout high pressure will remain over the northeastern
CONUS through much of the weekend to allow for a strengthening
CAD event to unfold. Moisture flux from the Atlantic will begin
to take shape across the CFWA Saturday as 850mb winds veer to an
east to southeasterly component while the mid-level flow out of the
southwest pulls in moisture from the Gulf. Profiles become saturated
by Sunday as a low pressure system lifts west of the CFWA with good
QPF response on its east-side. This will work into the southwestern
zones sometime Sunday, but model discrepancy still exists with the
exact onset timing. Expect most of the rain to lift north and east
of the CFWA by Monday afternoon/evening. Temperatures will be below
normal for highs and above normal for lows through the early part
of next week. Upper troughiness will linger over the area through
D7 as any CAD feature should erode after Monday. Temperatures will
return to near normal values as a result.

&&

.AVIATION /18Z WEDNESDAY THROUGH MONDAY/...
At KCLT and elsewhere: Finally seeing some improvement at the
Piedmont/Upstate sites after hours of prevailing IFR and LIFR
restrictions.  Have retained TEMPO for IFR cigs at KCLT until
19z to catch any brief restrictions, although satellite imagery
suggests more permanent clearing is imminent.  Winds mostly WSW
at this point, but as the front exits the region this afternoon
to the east, flow should become predominantly NW to N through the
evening and overnight.  Low-end gusts possible across the mountains,
mentionable only at KAVL.  The overwhelming majority of guidance
now supports fog at KAVL, but have kept it VFR for now based on
expected stout cold advective flow up the French Broad Valley
all night long, which should limit radiative cooling potential.
VFR conditions then expected through the end of the TAF period late
Thursday as dry, stable, high pressure builds in from the north.

Outlook: Dry, mostly VFR conditions continue through Friday. Precip
and restrictions could return at some point over the weekend,
but low confidence remains on timing and impacts.

&&

.GSP WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
GA...None.
NC...None.
SC...None.

&&

$$
SYNOPSIS...DEO
NEAR TERM...JDL/MPR
SHORT TERM...CAC
LONG TERM...CAC
AVIATION...MPR
