209 
FXUS62 KGSP 262136
AFDGSP

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Greenville-Spartanburg SC
536 PM EDT Wed Oct 26 2022

.SYNOPSIS...
Cool high pressure crossing the Great Lakes Thursday and Friday will 
bring cooler day time temperatures into the weekend.  Expect rain 
chances to increase again this weekend and into early next week as a 
low pressure system approaches from the Gulf states.  Drier weather 
and milder temperatures return on Tuesday after low pressure departs 
from our region.

&&

.NEAR TERM /THROUGH THURSDAY/...
As of 533 PM EDT Wednesday: Satellite imagery and sfc obs continue
to show the clearing trend across the fcst area, with most locations
away from the TN border having only scattered clouds remaining
early this evening. Most of the remaining clouds should dissipate
with sunset. Temps were in good shape, but the dewpt trend needs
a few tweaks.

Tonight, sustained NW flow will allow CAA to peak during the
predawn hours, leading to a potential for some ridgetop gusts,
though the supporting surface high is generally too far north for
a strong pressure gradient to form.  Temps will drop into the 40s
across the region, with isolated 30s possible in the mountains.
Stout NNW flow should have a suppressive effect on morning fog;
nonetheless, enough lingering moisture will be present in the
mountain valleys that at least patchy and intermitten fog may be
able to crop up there.  This is depicted by short-term guidance
mostly in the French Broad Valley.  What fog does develop should
quickly scatter out tomorrow morning, giving way to clear and dry
conditions through Thursday afternoon.

&&

.SHORT TERM /THURSDAY NIGHT THROUGH SATURDAY/...
As of 205 pm EDT Wednesday: A southern stream cutoff low center over 
northern Texas Thursday night through Friday will migrate east to 
the lower Mississippi River Valley through Saturday. Meanwhile, 
1030+ mb surface high pressure will build from the Great Lakes to 
the northeastern U.S. Friday, with the nose of the surface ridge 
pushing across the western Carolinas and northeast Georgia through 
Saturday. Anticipate continued dry profiles, other than modest 850 
mb moisture passing over the area on east-northeast flow from the 
Atlantic. A smaller-than-climo diurnal range on temperatures is 
expected through the period given the nighttime mixing on steady NE 
flow and cooler daytime thicknesses under the surface high. Very 
small rain chances will return from the southwest late Saturday.

&&

.LONG TERM /SATURDAY NIGHT THROUGH WEDNESDAY/...
As of 210 pm EDT Wednesday: Hybrid cold air damming will develop 
over the region through the latter half of the weekend, with a dry 
surface ridge in place south of a New England/coastal waters high, 
and with precipitation returning from the southwest ahead of a 
phasing southern stream system. This upper low, which will be 
positioned over the Mississippi River Valley Saturday night, will 
phase back into the northern stream over the Ohio Valley through 
Sunday. A better Gulf of Mexico fetch will start to get established 
Saturday night ahead of this feature, with deeper moisture in 
profiles maximizing Sunday into Sunday night atop our area. All 
zones will see likely PoPs at some point during this period, but 
with QPF totals trending a bit downward. Maximum temperatures will 
remain a few degrees under guidance given the wedge potential.

Mid-level dry slotting will wrap into the area from the southwest on 
Monday, coincident with the passage of an occluding/cold front. 
Shower coverage will diminish, but cannot rule out some brief warm 
sector instability along the southeast Piedmont fringe midday 
Monday. It's more likely that some degree of shallow, stable wedging 
will persist so no thunder will be featured. A lingering upper 
trough axis west of the mountains will then cross the southern 
Appalachians on Tuesday, with fairly dry profiles and downsloping 
flow aiding in the final dissipation of any residual surface-based 
cool wedge layer. Ridging returns on Wednesday with temperatures 
back above climo.

&&

.AVIATION /22Z WEDNESDAY THROUGH MONDAY/...
At KCLT and elsewhere: Finally seeing some improvement at the
Piedmont/Upstate sites after hours of prevailing IFR and LIFR
restrictions.  Have retained TEMPO for IFR cigs at KCLT until
19z to catch any brief restrictions, although satellite imagery
suggests more permanent clearing is imminent.  Winds mostly WSW
at this point, but as the front exits the region this afternoon
to the east, flow should become predominantly NW to N through the
evening and overnight.  Low-end gusts possible across the mountains,
mentionable only at KAVL.  The overwhelming majority of guidance
now supports fog at KAVL, but have kept it VFR for now based on
expected stout cold advective flow up the French Broad Valley
all night long, which should limit radiative cooling potential.
VFR conditions then expected through the end of the TAF period late
Thursday as dry, stable, high pressure builds in from the north.

Outlook: Dry, mostly VFR conditions continue through Friday. Precip
and restrictions could return at some point over the weekend,
but low confidence remains on timing and impacts.

&&

.GSP WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
GA...None.
NC...None.
SC...None.

&&

$$
SYNOPSIS...DEO
NEAR TERM...MPR/PM
SHORT TERM...HG
LONG TERM...HG
AVIATION...MPR
