120 
FXUS62 KGSP 260605
AFDGSP

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Greenville-Spartanburg SC
205 AM EDT Wed Oct 26 2022

.SYNOPSIS...
A weak frontal system brings a chance of rain tonight into early 
Wednesday. Dry conditions return behind the front through the end of 
the work week, with more seasonal temperatures. Expect rain chances 
to increase again this weekend and into early next week as a low 
pressure system approaches from the Gulf states. High temperatures 
will be a few degrees cooler this weekend.

&&

.NEAR TERM /THROUGH TODAY/...
As of 200 am EDT Wednesday: Main band of pre-frontal showers is 
moving across the western part of the CWA...and is increasingly 
becoming less disorganized as expected. This trend is expected to 
continue through the early morning, warranting continued 
advertisement of a tight PoPs gradient...from likely/categorical in 
western areas, to only slight chances along/east of I-77. Low temps 
overnight should be 10+ degrees warmer than last night owing to 
cloudier conditions across the CWA.

Otherwise...conditions are depicted as improving rapidly from
mid-morning and beyond on Wednesday.  Normally, this would seem a
tad too aggressive, yet model consensus on an influx of deep dry air
paired with observational evidence of this dry air already wrapping
into the surface low hints that we may see faster-than-typical
improvement in conditions tomorrow.  Certainly, by noon and
thereafter, skies should be clearing.  Max temps tomorrow will
thus be warm, but up to a category lower than today's given cloud
cover will limit morning heating.

&&

.SHORT TERM /TONIGHT THROUGH FRIDAY/...
As of 200 AM EDT Wednesday: Expect the sensible weather to remain
quiet through the forecast period. Model guidance continue to push a
closed upper from the Four Corners region into the Southern Plains
through the end of the work week. In response to the closed low
moving into the Southern Plains, moist south to southwesterly flow
aloft will gradually pull into the southeastern CONUS Friday. At
the same time, surface high pressure will slide from the Great
Lakes region Thursday and set up over the northeastern CONUS by
Friday as it noses down the Appalachians. Expect mostly clear
skies until sometime Friday as mid-level clouds push in from the
southwest. With the position of the surface high, CAD will be in
the works, but good insolation will help temperatures Thursday
remain at or slightly above normal. Recent trends have come in
a little slower with the overall cloud cover on Friday, which
could give way to decent insolation during the daytime period,
which would ultimately keep temperatures near normal. Overnight
lows Thursday and Friday will be at or a few ticks above normal.

&&

.LONG TERM /FRIDAY NIGHT THROUGH TUESDAY/...
As of 200 pm EDT Tuesday: An upstream closed low pressure system 
will spin over the Arklatex region on Saturday before lifting 
and phasing back into the northern stream Sunday into Monday. 
Recent trends among the models are toward slightly faster 
moisture return through the weekend as southerly moisture flux 
from the Gulf of Mexico sets up, along with low-level 
southeasterly flow moisture arriving from the Atlantic. The 
returning Atlantic and Gulf moisture will increasingly ride up 
over strong surface high pressure in place over our area to 
create classical cold air damming by late weekend. This will 
warrant a steady uptick in PoPs from late Saturday through 
Sunday night as the features come together. Will adjust the 
diurnal temperatures range for Sunday and Monday (smaller than 
guidance) in line with the CAD expectations, although will be 
conservative at this point with the damming so far out in time 
and with precipitation amounts into the wedge layer somewhat 
uncertain. Precipitation will diminish from the southwest on 
Monday, but with cooler than guidance maxes continuing. 

The remnant trough axis arriving from the west should cross the area 
on Tuesday. Erosion of the surface damming layer will continue with 
a corresponding upward bump in maximum temperatures back to near 
normal.

&&

.AVIATION /06Z WEDNESDAY THROUGH SUNDAY/...
At KCLT and elsewhere: A band of pre-frontal showers is moving 
across the Terminal Forecast Area at this time. The band is steadily 
becoming increasingly disorganized, and this trend is expected to 
continue through the early morning. Tempos for SHRA and reduced 
visby are carried at all sites except at KHKY and KCLT through 
around 09Z. With the expectation that showers will become 
increasingly less concentrated as the band moves farther east, only 
VCSH is carried AT KHKY/KCLT. Otherwise, cigs within the frontal 
band are expected to lower to MVFR at all sites through daybreak. 
Some potential exists for IFR cigs, but this is far from a 
certainty, so we've hedged with ample use of SCT IFR layers. 

Skies should steadily clear from around sunrise through the morning. 
Winds will generally be light early this morning, primarily favoring 
a southerly component. Winds during the daylight hours are generally 
expected to favor SW at 5-10 kts, although a steady shift toward 
W/NW is expected during the afternoon. An exception will be at KAVL, 
where NW winds of 10-15 kts with higher gusts are expected to 
develop early in the day.  

Outlook: Dry, VFR conditions return for Thursday and Friday. Precip
and restrictions could return at some point over the weekend,
but low confidence remains on timing and impacts.

&&

.GSP WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
GA...None.
NC...None.
SC...None.

&&

$$
SYNOPSIS...DEO
NEAR TERM...JDL/MPR/PM
SHORT TERM...CAC
LONG TERM...HG
AVIATION...JDL
