526 
FXUS62 KGSP 260733
AFDGSP

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Greenville-Spartanburg SC
333 AM EDT Wed Oct 26 2022

.SYNOPSIS...
Lingering shower chances will be in store through daybreak before 
dry conditions and more seasonal temperatures return through the end 
fo the work week following a frontal passage today. Expect rain 
chances to increase again this weekend and into early next week as a 
low pressure system approaches from the Gulf states. High 
temperatures will be a few degrees cooler this weekend.

&&

.NEAR TERM /THROUGH TONIGHT/...
As of 315 am EDT Wednesday: Increasingly ragged frontal band of 
showers will continue to move across the eastern half of the 
forecast area early this morning. The downward trend in coverage and 
intensity is expected to continue such that only token small-to- 
middlin chance PoPs appear to be necessary along and east of I-77, 
with negligible precip amounts expected. Skies will steadily clear 
from west to east through the morning, although some clouds will 
linger near the TN/NC border as veering/increasingly NW upslope flow 
lifts lingering moisture up the western slopes of the Appalachians. 
The main air mass change in the wake of the front today will be a 
steady lowering of dewpoints. However, there will be enough cold 
advection to allow max temps across the mountains to top out several 
degrees below yesterday's readings, or right around normal. 
Meanwhile, deep mixing along with an increasing downslope component 
to the low level flow will offset the effects of any cold advection 
outside the mountains, and max temps are expected to warm to levels 
very similar to the past couple of days. Mostly clear skies tonight 
(with the exception of a narrow band of lingering upslope clouds 
along the TN border) along with weakening surface flow and lower 
dewpoints should allow temps to cool to or slightly below normal in 
most areas.

&&

.SHORT TERM /THURSDAY THROUGH FRIDAY NIGHT/...
As of 200 AM EDT Wednesday: Expect the sensible weather to remain
quiet through the forecast period. Model guidance continue to push a
closed upper from the Four Corners region into the Southern Plains
through the end of the work week. In response to the closed low
moving into the Southern Plains, moist south to southwesterly flow
aloft will gradually pull into the southeastern CONUS Friday. At
the same time, surface high pressure will slide from the Great
Lakes region Thursday and set up over the northeastern CONUS by
Friday as it noses down the Appalachians. Expect mostly clear
skies until sometime Friday as mid-level clouds push in from the
southwest. With the position of the surface high, CAD will be in
the works, but good insolation will help temperatures Thursday
remain at or slightly above normal. Recent trends have come in
a little slower with the overall cloud cover on Friday, which
could give way to decent insolation during the daytime period,
which would ultimately keep temperatures near normal. Overnight
lows Thursday and Friday will be at or a few ticks above normal.

&&

.LONG TERM /SATURDAY THROUGH TUESDAY/...
As of 300 AM EDT Wednesday: The closed low will begin to track
towards the mid-MS Valley Saturday into Sunday before becoming
an open wave and eventually phasing into the northern jet stream
by Monday. Stout high pressure will remain over the northeastern
CONUS through much of the weekend to allow for a strengthening
CAD event to unfold. Moisture flux from the Atlantic will begin
to take shape across the CFWA Saturday as 850mb winds veer to an
east to southeasterly component while the mid-level flow out of the
southwest pulls in moisture from the Gulf. Profiles become saturated
by Sunday as a low pressure system lifts west of the CFWA with good
QPF response on its east-side. This will work into the southwestern
zones sometime Sunday, but model discrepancy still exists with the
exact onset timing. Expect most of the rain to lift north and east
of the CFWA by Monday afternoon/evening. Temperatures will be below
normal for highs and above normal for lows through the early part
of next week. Upper troughiness will linger over the area through
D7 as any CAD feature should erode after Monday. Temperatures will
return to near normal values as a result.

&&

.AVIATION /08Z WEDNESDAY THROUGH SUNDAY/...
At KCLT and elsewhere: A band of pre-frontal showers is moving 
across the Terminal Forecast Area at this time. The band is steadily 
becoming increasingly disorganized, and this trend is expected to 
continue through the early morning. Tempos for SHRA and reduced 
visby are carried at all sites except at KHKY and KCLT through 
around 09Z. With the expectation that showers will become 
increasingly less concentrated as the band moves farther east, only 
VCSH is carried AT KHKY/KCLT. Otherwise, cigs within the frontal 
band are expected to lower to MVFR at all sites through daybreak. 
Some potential exists for IFR cigs, but this is far from a 
certainty, so we've hedged with ample use of SCT IFR layers. 

Skies should steadily clear from around sunrise through the morning. 
Winds will generally be light early this morning, primarily favoring 
a southerly component. Winds during the daylight hours are generally 
expected to favor SW at 5-10 kts, although a steady shift toward 
W/NW is expected during the afternoon. An exception will be at KAVL, 
where NW winds of 10-15 kts with higher gusts are expected to 
develop early in the day.  

Outlook: Dry, VFR conditions return for Thursday and Friday. Precip
and restrictions could return at some point over the weekend,
but low confidence remains on timing and impacts.

&&

.GSP WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
GA...None.
NC...None.
SC...None.

&&

$$
SYNOPSIS...CAC
NEAR TERM...JDL
SHORT TERM...CAC
LONG TERM...CAC
AVIATION...JDL
