973 
FXUS62 KGSP 261517
AFDGSP

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Greenville-Spartanburg SC
1117 AM EDT Wed Oct 26 2022

.SYNOPSIS...
Cool high pressure crossing the Great Lakes Thursday and Friday will 
bring cooler day time temperatures into the weekend.  Expect rain 
chances to increase again this weekend and into early next week as a 
low pressure system approaches from the Gulf states.  Drier weather 
and milder temperatures return on Tuesday after low pressure departs 
from our region.

&&

.NEAR TERM /THROUGH TONIGHT/...
As of 1100 am EDT Wednesday: Showers have at this point exited the
forecast area.  Can't rule out some continuing sprinkles on the
western slopes of the Appalachians on and near the NC-TN border, but
all major activity has ended for the morning.  Widespread low cloud
cover remains in the wake of the front despite a strengthening dry
conveyor belt...and hopes for a quick improvement in this morning's
conditions have been dashed.  Steady lowering of sfc dewpoints has
somewhat lagged the forecast, as top-down drying has resulted in
a PBL which remains saturated in many areas.

As the post-frontal regime takes hold, there will be enough
cold advection to allow max temps across the mountains to
top out several degrees below yesterday's readings, or right
around normal. Meanwhile, deep mixing along with an increasing
downslope component to the low level flow will offset the effects
of any cold advection outside the mountains, and max temps are
expected to warm to levels very similar to the past couple of
days, or perhaps a degree or two cooler in areas which see very
delayed clearing. Mostly clear skies tonight (with the exception
of a narrow band of lingering upslope clouds along the TN border)
along with weakening surface flow and lower dewpoints should allow
temps to cool to or slightly below normal in most areas.

&&

.SHORT TERM /THURSDAY THROUGH FRIDAY NIGHT/...
As of 200 AM EDT Wednesday: Expect the sensible weather to remain
quiet through the forecast period. Model guidance continue to push a
closed upper from the Four Corners region into the Southern Plains
through the end of the work week. In response to the closed low
moving into the Southern Plains, moist south to southwesterly flow
aloft will gradually pull into the southeastern CONUS Friday. At
the same time, surface high pressure will slide from the Great
Lakes region Thursday and set up over the northeastern CONUS by
Friday as it noses down the Appalachians. Expect mostly clear
skies until sometime Friday as mid-level clouds push in from the
southwest. With the position of the surface high, CAD will be in
the works, but good insolation will help temperatures Thursday
remain at or slightly above normal. Recent trends have come in
a little slower with the overall cloud cover on Friday, which
could give way to decent insolation during the daytime period,
which would ultimately keep temperatures near normal. Overnight
lows Thursday and Friday will be at or a few ticks above normal.

&&

.LONG TERM /SATURDAY THROUGH TUESDAY/...
As of 300 AM EDT Wednesday: The closed low will begin to track
towards the mid-MS Valley Saturday into Sunday before becoming
an open wave and eventually phasing into the northern jet stream
by Monday. Stout high pressure will remain over the northeastern
CONUS through much of the weekend to allow for a strengthening
CAD event to unfold. Moisture flux from the Atlantic will begin
to take shape across the CFWA Saturday as 850mb winds veer to an
east to southeasterly component while the mid-level flow out of the
southwest pulls in moisture from the Gulf. Profiles become saturated
by Sunday as a low pressure system lifts west of the CFWA with good
QPF response on its east-side. This will work into the southwestern
zones sometime Sunday, but model discrepancy still exists with the
exact onset timing. Expect most of the rain to lift north and east
of the CFWA by Monday afternoon/evening. Temperatures will be below
normal for highs and above normal for lows through the early part
of next week. Upper troughiness will linger over the area through
D7 as any CAD feature should erode after Monday. Temperatures will
return to near normal values as a result.

&&

.AVIATION /15Z WEDNESDAY THROUGH SUNDAY/...
At KCLT and elsewhere: Ragged band of pre-frontal showers will move 
east of the Terminal Forecast Area by 12Z. Reduced visby in BR may 
linger for an hour or two after precip ends, but should be VFR 
shortly after sunrise. MVFR cigs will be more stubborn to lift and 
scatter, but should begin to do so from west to east...clearing at 
the upstate SC terminals and KAVL 14/15Z, and at KCLT around 17Z, 
with VFR expected after that. Most sites could see a stray IFR 
cig...perhaps even FEW/SCT LIFR clouds through mid-morning. Have 
generally stuck with SCT IFR conditions. The possibility of 
including tempos for IFR cigs will be left to a last minute 
decision. 

Winds will generally be light early this morning, primarily favoring 
a southerly component. Winds during the daylight hours are generally 
expected to favor SW at 5-10 kts, although a steady shift toward 
W/NW is expected during the afternoon, with northerly winds expected 
at most sites during the evening. An exception will be at KAVL, 
where NW winds of 10-15 kts with higher gusts are expected to 
develop by late morning. Although conditions will steadily dry out 
through the day, there may be sufficient moisture to support 
mountain valley fog development early Thu, but this will be most 
likely in the valleys south and west of KAVL, as persistent 
up-valley winds of 5-10 kts should keep visby elevated.   

Outlook: Dry, mostly VFR conditions continue through Friday. Precip 
and restrictions could return at some point over the weekend, but 
low confidence remains on timing and impacts.

&&

.GSP WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
GA...None.
NC...None.
SC...None.

&&

$$
SYNOPSIS...DEO
NEAR TERM...JDL/MPR
SHORT TERM...CAC
LONG TERM...CAC
AVIATION...JDL
