061 
FXUS62 KGSP 262340
AFDGSP

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Greenville-Spartanburg SC
740 PM EDT Wed Oct 26 2022

.SYNOPSIS...
Cool high pressure crossing the Great Lakes Thursday and Friday will 
bring cooler day time temperatures into the weekend.  Expect rain 
chances to increase again this weekend and into early next week as a 
low pressure system approaches from the Gulf states.  Drier weather 
and milder temperatures return on Tuesday after low pressure departs 
from our region.

&&

.NEAR TERM /THROUGH THURSDAY/...
As of 735 PM EDT Wednesday: Satellite imagery and sfc obs show
a few patches of stratocu east of the mtns this evening, so some
spots could be mostly cloudy thru the mid-evening until the clouds
either dissipate or get pushed off to the southeast. Temp/dewpt
was in good shape, so only a few tweaks were made.

Tonight, sustained NW flow will allow CAA to peak during the
predawn hours, leading to a potential for some ridgetop gusts,
though the supporting surface high is generally too far north for
a strong pressure gradient to form.  Temps will drop into the 40s
across the region, with isolated 30s possible in the mountains.
Stout NNW flow should have a suppressive effect on morning fog;
nonetheless, enough lingering moisture will be present in the
mountain valleys that at least patchy and intermitten fog may be
able to crop up there.  This is depicted by short-term guidance
mostly in the French Broad Valley.  What fog does develop should
quickly scatter out tomorrow morning, giving way to clear and dry
conditions through Thursday afternoon.

&&

.SHORT TERM /THURSDAY NIGHT THROUGH SATURDAY/...
As of 205 pm EDT Wednesday: A southern stream cutoff low center over 
northern Texas Thursday night through Friday will migrate east to 
the lower Mississippi River Valley through Saturday. Meanwhile, 
1030+ mb surface high pressure will build from the Great Lakes to 
the northeastern U.S. Friday, with the nose of the surface ridge 
pushing across the western Carolinas and northeast Georgia through 
Saturday. Anticipate continued dry profiles, other than modest 850 
mb moisture passing over the area on east-northeast flow from the 
Atlantic. A smaller-than-climo diurnal range on temperatures is 
expected through the period given the nighttime mixing on steady NE 
flow and cooler daytime thicknesses under the surface high. Very 
small rain chances will return from the southwest late Saturday.

&&

.LONG TERM /SATURDAY NIGHT THROUGH WEDNESDAY/...
As of 210 pm EDT Wednesday: Hybrid cold air damming will develop 
over the region through the latter half of the weekend, with a dry 
surface ridge in place south of a New England/coastal waters high, 
and with precipitation returning from the southwest ahead of a 
phasing southern stream system. This upper low, which will be 
positioned over the Mississippi River Valley Saturday night, will 
phase back into the northern stream over the Ohio Valley through 
Sunday. A better Gulf of Mexico fetch will start to get established 
Saturday night ahead of this feature, with deeper moisture in 
profiles maximizing Sunday into Sunday night atop our area. All 
zones will see likely PoPs at some point during this period, but 
with QPF totals trending a bit downward. Maximum temperatures will 
remain a few degrees under guidance given the wedge potential.

Mid-level dry slotting will wrap into the area from the southwest on 
Monday, coincident with the passage of an occluding/cold front. 
Shower coverage will diminish, but cannot rule out some brief warm 
sector instability along the southeast Piedmont fringe midday 
Monday. It's more likely that some degree of shallow, stable wedging 
will persist so no thunder will be featured. A lingering upper 
trough axis west of the mountains will then cross the southern 
Appalachians on Tuesday, with fairly dry profiles and downsloping 
flow aiding in the final dissipation of any residual surface-based 
cool wedge layer. Ridging returns on Wednesday with temperatures 
back above climo.

&&

.AVIATION /00Z THURSDAY THROUGH MONDAY/...
At KCLT and elsewhere: VFR at all terminals through the
period. Still some lingering VFR-level stratocu in a few patches
east of the mtns, particularly around KCLT and KAND, so a temporary
bkn ceiling was included. Fortunately the cloud base was around
040-050. A large patch of low clouds seen on satellite imagery could
blow up the French Broad Valley to KAVL, so a temporary VFR-level
ceiling was included there as well, but it is possible the cloud
base could drop into the upper part of MVFR. Wind overnight should
be steady from the NNW to NNE. On Thursday, expect sky clear. Wind
will veer a bit more to NE after sunrise, with a few gusts possible
at KCLT in the afternoon.

Outlook: Dry, mostly VFR conditions continue through Friday. Precip
and restrictions could return at some point over the weekend,
but low confidence remains on timing and impacts.

&&

.GSP WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
GA...None.
NC...None.
SC...None.

&&

$$
SYNOPSIS...DEO
NEAR TERM...MPR/PM
SHORT TERM...HG
LONG TERM...HG
AVIATION...PM
