900 
FXUS66 KLOX 261044
AFDLOX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Los Angeles/Oxnard CA 
344 AM PDT Wed Oct 26 2022

.SYNOPSIS...25/1141 PM.

It will be sunny and a little cooler today as onshore flow and 
some marine layer returns. A weak Santa Ana wind event is forecast
for Thursday with warm and breezy conditions across the coasts 
and valleys. Fair skies are forecast Friday and Saturday with max
temperatures slightly below normal.

&&

.SHORT TERM (TDY-FRI)...26/303 AM.

Despite onshore flow with good onshore trends (which usually
generate low clouds) skies are clear save for some stratus over
western SBA county and a few wisps of cirrus. A weak trof assoc 
with an upper low transiting through Idaho will move through the 
state today. It will lower hgts and increase the onshore push to 
the east. The lower hgts and better onshore flow will combine to 
lower max temps 3 to 6 degrees (some increased N to S across srn 
SBA county will warm that area a couple of degrees). Max temps 
today will be 4 to 8 degrees blo normal. The increased onshore 
flow to the east will bring 30 to 40 mph wind gusts to the 
Antelope Vly with isolated gusts to 45 in the foothills.

As is typical with most inside slider trof passages northerly
offshore flow will develop in its wake and there will be gusty
northerly winds through the i-5 corridor and the southern SBA 
south coast later tonight. The wind gusts may approach the 45 mph 
advisory thresholds but will likely fall short except for some 
isolated 45 to 50 mph gusts across exposed remote ridgetops.

Thursday morning the second phase of the inside slider will
develop as high pressure builds into the great basin. The E/W
gradients will quickly reverse and by sunrise there will be about
3 mb of offshore flow both from the north and the east and a Santa
Ana wind event will result. There is no upper support for this 
wind event and only limited thermal support so it will be at be 
another mild to moderate event with some low end wind advisories 
needed for the wind corridor from the Santa Clarita area to the 
eastern Ventura county valleys and the western Santa Monicas. This
offshore push will bring 3 to 5 degrees of warming to the coasts 
and valleys (xcp the SBA south coast which will cool since it will
not have todays north to south offshore flow). Weak cool air
advection will cool the Antelope Vly 3 to 5 degrees.

No one will be talking about the weather on Friday as it will be
very benign. There will be westerly flow aloft and weak onshore
trends but likely still offshore flow. The morning offshore flow
will keep any stratus away. There will be enough embedded mid and
high level clouds in the upper flow to make the skies partly
cloudy. The csts/vlys will cool 2 to 4 as offshore flow subsides
but the interior will warm 2 to 4 degrees since there will be no
cool air advection. Max temps will be 2 to 4 degrees blo normal
across VTA/LA counties and 4 to 8 degrees under normal for SLO and
SBA counties.

.LONG TERM (SAT-TUE)...26/325 AM.

Deterministic and ensemble guidance (GEFS ECS GEPS) have come into
agreement on Saturdays forecast and call for a weak ridge with
light sfc flow. The mdls are following their typical bias at the
sfc with the EC showing weak offshore flow and the GFS weak
onshore flow. Still look for a sunny day with 2 to 5 degrees of
warming. Most max temps will still end up a few degrees blo
normal.

Deterministic and ensemble forecasts continue to trend towards
better agreement on Sunday although less so than Saturday. Weak
offshore flow should keep the stratus away from areas south of Pt
Conception but the Central Coast should see some morning low
clouds. Otherwise, skies will be partly cloudy as mid and high
level clouds stream overhead. Look for another 1 to 3 degrees of
warming and near normal max temps.

The deterministic mdls diverge and the ensemble spread increases
for early next week with a cooler EC and and warmer GFS. Taking a
look at all of the ensembles it seems like the cooler EC is the
way to go.

Looking further ahead a number of ensembles do forecast light rain
on Wednesday for SLO and SBA counties.

&&

.AVIATION...26/1029Z.

At 10Z, the marine layer was 700 feet deep. The top of the 
inversion was at 1400 feet with a temperature of 16 C.

Just some patchy low clouds on the Central Coast and southern
portions of the Santa Ynez Valley. Conds were mostly IFR to LIFR. 
Skies should clear by mid morning. Expect skies to be clear across
the region tonight as offshore flow develops. 

KLAX...Good confidence in TAF with only a 10 percent chc of BKN005
conds 13Z-16Z. Good confidence that any east wind component will
be under 7 kt.

KBUR...High confidence in CAVU TAF.

&&

.MARINE...26/309 AM.

For the Outer Waters, moderate to high confidence in current 
forecast. Small Craft Advisory (SCA) level winds are expected to 
increase to Gale force this afternoon, then continue through late 
tonight. Then, SCA conds are likely to continue into Thu morning, 
except possibly not in the northern zone. For Thu night and Fri, 
conds are expected to be below SCA levels, then SCA conds are 
likely Sat thru Sun, possibly beginning as early as Fri night.

For the Inner Waters north of Point Sal, high confidence in
current forecast. SCA level winds are expected during the
this afternoon and evening. There is a 30% chance that seas will
remain at or above SCA levels thru tonight. SCA conds are not
expected Thu thru Sun, though there is a 30% chance of SCA level
winds during the afternoon and evening hours Sat and Sun. 

For the Inner Waters south of Point Conception, moderate 
to high confidence in current forecast. SCA level winds are likely
across western portions of the SBA channel this afternoon through
late this evening. There is a 30% chance of SCA conditions
across eastern portions of the channel, or in the southern zones
(PZZ655) from Anacapa Island to about Malibu. Otherwise, SCA conds
are not expected thru Sun.

&&

.LOX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CA...NONE.
PZ...Small Craft Advisory in effect from 3 PM this afternoon to 9
      PM PDT this evening for zone 645. (See LAXMWWLOX).
     Small Craft Advisory in effect from 3 PM this afternoon to 3
      AM PDT Thursday for zone 650. (See LAXMWWLOX).
     Small Craft Advisory in effect until 3 PM PDT this afternoon
      for zones 670-673-676. (See LAXMWWLOX).
     Gale Warning in effect from 3 PM this afternoon to 2 AM PDT
      Thursday for zones 670-673-676. (See LAXMWWLOX).

&&

$$

PUBLIC...Rorke
AVIATION...DB
MARINE...DB
SYNOPSIS...30

weather.gov/losangeles

Experimental Graphical Hazardous Weather Outlook at:
https://www.weather.gov/erh/ghwo?wfo=lox
