910 
FXUS66 KLOX 262042
AFDLOX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Los Angeles/Oxnard CA 
142 PM PDT Wed Oct 26 2022

.SYNOPSIS...26/111 PM.

It will be sunny and a little cooler today as onshore flow and 
some marine layer returns. A weak Santa Ana wind event is forecast
for Thursday with warm and breezy conditions across the coasts 
and valleys. Fair skies are forecast Friday and Saturday with max
temperatures slightly below normal.

&&

.SHORT TERM (TDY-SAT)...26/141 PM.

Synoptically,the area remains in the southwestern portion of a 
long wave upper level-trough that has dropped from Washington 
state into Idaho. On Thursday a pop-up ridge moves up from the 
southwest nudging the trough to the east and the pressure gradient
at the surface will cause another mild offshore flow day similar 
to what was experienced on Monday. This will begin a few days of
that all contain at least a few hours of offshore flow. The ridge
will continue to gradually strengthen through Sunday. The models
finally seems to have a grasp of the long term pattern.  Monday 
will be a bit of a transition day before another trough drops 
down. Details differ, but GFS and the EC Ens both agree that there
will be a chance of precip for our area beginning late Tuesday 
and the trough will persist through the rest of the forecast 
period (and beyond).

Max temps fell 5-10 degrees today (except in the Antelope Valley)
and are running 4 to 8 degrees below normal. The increased 
onshore flow to the east has been causing 25 mph wind gusts to 
the Antelope Valley. It may get a little gustier this afternoon,
especially in the foothills, but should remain below advisory
strength. Northerly offshore flow will develop through the I-5 
corridor and the southern SBA south coast later tonight. Our local
model shows this wind at around 25-35 mph with gusts near 45 mph.
There may be some isolated 45 to 50 mph gusts across exposed 
remote ridgetops.

On Thursday morning the second phase of the inside slider will
develop as high pressure builds into the great basin. The E/W
gradients will quickly reverse and by sunrise there will be about
3 mb of offshore flow both from the north and the east and another 
Santa Ana wind event will result. There is no upper support for 
this wind event and only limited thermal support so it will be at 
be another mild to moderate event. Typical windiest corridor from
the Santa Clarita area to the eastern Ventura county valleys and 
the western Santa Monicas may need an advisory. This offshore 
push will bring 3 to 5 degrees of warming to the coasts and 
valleys (except the SBA south coast which will cool since it will
not have todays north to south offshore flow). Weak cool air 
advection will cool the Antelope Valley 3 to 5 degrees.

No one will be talking about the weather on Friday as it will be
very benign. There will be westerly flow aloft and weak onshore
trends but likely still offshore flow. The morning offshore flow
will keep any stratus away. There will be enough embedded mid and
high level clouds in the upper flow to make the skies partly
cloudy. The csts/vlys will cool 2 to 4 as offshore flow subsides
but the interior will warm 2 to 4 degrees since there will be no
cool air advection. Max temps will be 2 to 4 degrees blo normal
across VTA/LA counties and 4 to 8 degrees under normal for SLO and
SBA counties.

Deterministic and ensemble guidance (GEFS ECS GEPS) have come much
more into agreement on Saturday's forecast and call for a weak 
ridge with light sfc flow. Look for a sunny day with 2 to 5 
degrees of warming. Most max temps will still end up a few degrees
below normal.

.LONG TERM (SUN-WED)...26/141 PM.

The ridge will persist into Sunday and that will be the warmest
day of the next seven. Look for another 1 to 3 degrees of warming
and near normal max temps.  Weak offshore flow should keep the 
stratus away from areas south of Pt Conception but the Central 
Coast should see some morning low clouds. Otherwise, skies will be
partly cloudy as mid and high level clouds stream overhead. 

By Monday the pattern is fairly meridional through California.
Disregarded the GFS idea of a cutoff low dropping just to our west
on Monday morning in favor of the many ensemble members that 
continue the weak ridge. By later Monday afternoon a shortwave
trough bulges south out of the trough offshore near San Francisco
and this feature will drag the trough deeper into Southern
California by Tuesday.

EC Ens and GFS mean solutions are both producing some light and
widespread rain by Wednesday, but deterministic solutions are much
drier. NBM caught on to the ensemble trend and included the QPF on
Wednesday and we kept it. The wet pattern appears to persist for 
the first week of November, if you put any faith into the extended
forecast.

&&

.AVIATION...26/1749Z.

At 1656Z, the marine layer was 1600 feet deep. The top of the 
inversion was at 1800 feet with a temperature of 14 C.

All TAF sites are enjoying VFR conditions except for KLGB where a
las minute surge of marine clouds was causing BKN/MVFR  
conditions. KLGB should clear out soon. Skies should remain clear
across the region through Thursday as offshore flow develops. 

KLAX...Good confidence in TAF. Only a 10 percent chance of BKN
conditions. Good confidence that any east wind component will be 
under 7 kt.

KBUR...High confidence in CAVU TAF.

&&

.MARINE...26/137 PM.

No changes to the marine forecast in the afternoon issuance.

For the Outer Waters, moderate to high confidence in current 
forecast. Small Craft Advisory (SCA) level winds are expected to 
increase to Gale force this afternoon, then continue through late 
tonight. Then, SCA conds are likely to continue into Thu morning, 
except possibly not in the northern zone. For Thu night and Fri, 
conds are expected to be below SCA levels, then SCA conds are 
likely Sat thru Sun, possibly beginning as early as Fri night.

For the Inner Waters north of Point Sal, high confidence in
current forecast. SCA level winds are expected during the
afternoon and evening. There is a 30% chance that seas will 
remain at or above SCA levels thru tonight. SCA conds are not 
expected Thu thru Sun, though there is a 30% chance of SCA level 
winds during the afternoon and evening hours Sat and Sun. 

For the Inner Waters south of Point Conception, moderate 
to high confidence in current forecast. SCA level winds are likely
across western portions of the SBA channel this afternoon through
late this evening. There is a 30% chance of SCA conditions
across eastern portions of the channel, or in the southern zones
(PZZ655) from Anacapa Island to about Malibu. Otherwise, SCA conds
are not expected thru Sun.

&&

.LOX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CA...NONE.
PZ...Small Craft Advisory in effect until 9 PM PDT this evening
      for zone 645. (See LAXMWWLOX).
     Small Craft Advisory in effect until 3 AM PDT Thursday for
      zone 650. (See LAXMWWLOX).
     Small Craft Advisory in effect until 3 PM PDT this afternoon
      for zones 670-673-676. (See LAXMWWLOX).
     Gale Warning in effect until 2 AM PDT Thursday for zones
      670-673-676. (See LAXMWWLOX).

&&

$$

PUBLIC...Rorke/jld
AVIATION...Sweet/DB
MARINE...Sweet/DB
SYNOPSIS...30

weather.gov/losangeles

Experimental Graphical Hazardous Weather Outlook at:
https://www.weather.gov/erh/ghwo?wfo=lox
