162 
FXUS63 KPAH 262322
AFDPAH

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Paducah KY
622 PM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

.UPDATE...
Issued at 622 PM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

Updated aviation discussion for 00Z TAFs.

&&

.SHORT TERM...(Tonight through Friday night)
Issued at 250 PM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

Surface high pressure will slide from the Midwest into the
southern Great Lakes region tonight, then over the northeastern
U.S. by tomorrow night and Friday. The PAH forecast area will 
remain under the influence of cool northeast to easterly flow 
tonight through Friday. Clear skies and light winds tonight will
allow temperatures to fall 5 to 7 degrees below normal in the 
middle to upper 30s. Highs on Thursday will also be a few degrees  
below normal in the lower to middle 60s despite abundant 
sunshine. Lows Thursday night will be a couple of degrees warmer 
than tonight, then readings will rebound to near to a little above
normal in the middle 60s to around 70 degrees on Friday. We will 
see clouds begin to increase from the southwest Friday afternoon 
with the approach of a low pressure system over Texas. 

.LONG TERM...(Saturday through Wednesday)
Issued at 250 PM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

The NBM is beginning to catch up with the drier trending noted 
earlier this week regarding the onset of pops in the long term 
portion of the forecast, leaving Friday dry and being slow to bring 
in a slight chance only in our far southwest late Friday night. We 
think this is so because the latest deterministic Canadian and GFS 
ensemble is now indicating this as well. All models track a Low out 
of the Rockies, across the Red River Valley, and into the 
Mississippi River Valley by this weekend. Pops begin, as stated, 
late Friday night, and uptick to a peak in the likely or even 
categorical range by late Saturday into early Sunday, when the 
Low/remnants thereof lift overhead. While overall system strength 
wanes with time, overhead movement of the Low may offer just enough 
instability to proffer a thunderstorm or two with its passage, 
mainly late Saturday night. ESAT's show nothing exceptional with 
respect to the spatial forecast fields, and 6 hour storm average qpf 
ranges up to no more than 1/4 to 1/3 of an inch through the system's 
approach, passage, and departure. Thus overall storm total averages 
will likely be an inch or less, with highest amounts possible 
southeast, lowest northwest, based on the current mean forecast 
track of the Low.

Seasonal temps in the 60s and lower 70s for highs, and mostly 40s or 
lower 50s for lows, are expected through the entirety of the long 
term. Pcpn chances effectively end by the end of the weekend, but 
isolated small pops lingering north and/or east Monday cannot be 
ruled out.

&&

.AVIATION...
Issued at 622 PM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

High pressure will keep VFR conditions in place through Thursday.
There's a small chance of patchy fog development late tonight, 
especially in our far eastern counties where clouds were last to 
clear. Light NNE winds tonight will become ENE at 5 to 10 knots on
Thursday. 

&&

.PAH WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
IL...None.
MO...None.
IN...None.
KY...None.
&&

$$

UPDATE...RJP
SHORT TERM...RST
AVIATION...RJP
