847 
FXUS63 KPAH 261113
AFDPAH

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Paducah KY
613 AM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

.SHORT TERM...(Today through Thursday night) 
Issued at 111 AM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

Vertically stacked low centered between Terre Haute and
Indianapolis, IN is departing to the northeast this morning. 
Pockets of light rain and drizzle have wrapped around the backside
of the low and we have maintained a decent low cloud deck amid 
cool temperatures and a west northwest wind. Low level moisture 
and convergence should mostly be clear of the region by daybreak 
as the storm system moves northeast setting us up for a mostly 
sunny day with a mostly northerly breeze as surface ridging builds
in to the west.

Expecting to maintain a bit of a gradient as the high passes to 
the north of the region overnight Thursday which will keep 
temperatures somewhat moderated, although they will be chilly.

Thursday winds shift to the east as we move in between the ridging
over the Great Lakes region and a developing trough/storm system
over the central plains. Mostly sunny skies with seasonable
temperatures are expected.

.LONG TERM...(Friday through Tuesday) 
Issued at 111 AM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

On the synoptic scale, a deep trough will be located over the Plains 
on Friday, with a developing low in Texas. This system gets cutoff 
and will progress slowly northeastward into the weekend. Model 
agreement is improved relative to last night, but remains separated 
in time, with the Canadian ensemble progressing the system faster 
and the ECMWF ensemble slower. The weak synoptic flow is likely 
responsible for much of the separation in timing. The NBM is closer 
to the 50th percentile than prior iterations that had large 
disparities so only smaller adjustments (lowering PoPs Saturday 
morning and increasing them late Sunday) were made.

Rain is expected to hold off until near dawn Saturday for portions 
of Southeast Missouri, with PoPs increasing through the day area-
wide Saturday. The highest rain chances are Saturday night into 
Sunday morning with likely PoPs for most of the Quad State. A 
thunderstorm or two is possible in southern portions of Western 
Kentucky Saturday night but this easily could change depending on 
the position of the low pressure center. QPF remains around a half 
an inch, which is welcome for the current drought, but will not be 
nearly enough to bring monthly rainfall amounts up to normal.

There is a general tendency amongst the models to weaken the system 
as it lifts northeastward with the weakened low being pulled back 
into the primary synoptic flow by Monday morning. There are hints 
that the lingering trough axis could result in a light shower or two 
Monday but for now the forecast will stick near the NBM with showers 
limited to the far eastern portion of the CWA. Conditions become dry 
for Tuesday as ridging builds into the South and Midwest with a 
surface high.

Highs in the upper half of the 60s to lower 70s Friday and Saturday 
will drop to the lower 60s Sunday when rain chances are at their 
peak. Highs slowly trend warmer towards the middle of next week. 
Lows near 40 early Friday morning increase with moisture advection 
to the lower 50s Saturday night, then remain in the upper 40s to 
near 50 afterwards.

&&

.AVIATION...
Issued at 608 AM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

Improvement to VFR expected from west to east this morning as a
storm system departs to the northeast (by 17z at all terminals). 
Some gustiness to northwest winds will likely redevelop after 
sunrise. VFR conditions with light north to northeasterly winds
expected through the overnight.


&&

.PAH WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
IL...None.
MO...None.
IN...None.
KY...None.
&&

$$

SHORT TERM...JGG
LONG TERM...ATL
AVIATION...JGG
