396 
FXUS63 KPAH 260440
AFDPAH

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Paducah KY
1140 PM CDT Tue Oct 25 2022

.SHORT TERM...(Tonight through Thursday night)
Issued at 411 PM CDT Tue Oct 25 2022

A tight, nearly stacked low pressure system will continue to
barrel northeastward over our northwestern counties tonight. The
main swath of rainfall had lost virtually all lightning activity,
however, steeper mid level lapse rates associated with the mid
level low were inducing some lightning activity in the MO Ozarks
region. Thus, the path of the low center (i.e., the northwestern 
tier of counties) will be the most likely area to experience at 
least isolated tstm activity this evening. Ceilings managed to 
break up over much of the PAH forecast area late in the afternoon,
and some wind gusts to 40 mph have occurred in southeastern MO, 
namely KPOF. After considering canceling the wind advisory early 
due to underperforming winds, increasing winds in northeastern AR 
and the KPOF observation convinced us to keep the wind advisory in
place...for now.

Scattered wraparound showers are expected this evening, mainly
east of the MS River, and should be out of our region completely
by daybreak. Winds 15 to 20 mph will become more westerly, then
northwesterly tonight, slowly subsiding through daybreak. A decent
northwesterly breeze will continue Wed as skies clear out.

High surface pressure and broad ridging aloft will ensure another
dry period through much of the week.

.LONG TERM...(Friday through Tuesday)
Issued at 411 PM CDT Tue Oct 25 2022

A nearly cut-off low is forecast to move out of TX over the 
weekend as it re-engages with the synoptic flow. The medium range 
models have merged a bit better on a solution for another, lesser 
opportunity for rainfall, which should be mostly confined to the 
weekend.

After a midweek cooldown, a slow warming trend will commence
through about halfway through the weekend, with no wild swings in
temps, but reasonably close to seasonable levels.

&&

.AVIATION...
Issued at 1124 PM CDT Tue Oct 25 2022

A low pressure system will slowly depart the area late tonight
into Wednesday morning. This will keep gusty winds in place
through late Wednesday morning or early afternoon. Some gusts to
25kts will be possible. Outside of some light rain showers or
drizzle at MVN/OWB/EVV early in the TAF period, expected any
precipitation to diminish overnight. MVFR conditions will give 
way to VFR conditions at all TAF sites throughout the day 
Wednesday, with clearing occurring earliest at CGI/PAH.

&&

.PAH WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
IL...None.
MO...None.
IN...None.
KY...None.
&&

$$

UPDATE...RJP
SHORT TERM...DB
LONG TERM...DB
AVIATION...KC
