416 
FXUS66 KPDT 261738
AFDPDT

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Pendleton OR
1038 AM PDT Wed Oct 26 2022

.Updated Aviation Discussion.

UPDATE...An upper trough is over the eastern half of the area 
this morning and will continue to move eastward. Precipitation is 
already winding down in the western side of the area and will do 
so early this afternoon over the eastern mountains. May end the 
Winter Weather Advisory for the northern Blue Mountains a few 
hours earlier than scheduled but will watch observations and 
webcams before deciding. Otherwise a cool and windy day is 
expected. Forecast was in good shape. Just made some minor 
temperature adjustments and lowered pops in the eastern mountains 
after 2 PM. Forecast update already out. Perry/83

AVIATION...18Z TAFS...VFR conditions expected through the period.
Clearing skies this morning will give way to SCT-BKN skies later
this afternoon and evening. Otherwise, 10-20 kt sustained winds 
at DLS/PDT/RDM/BDN are forecast today with gusts of 20-30 kts. 
Winds are anticipated to diminish to 10 kts or less overnight. 
Plunkett/86

PREV DISCUSSION... /issued 445 AM PDT Wed Oct 26 2022/ 

UPDATED AVIATION DISCUSSION...

SHORT TERM...Today through Friday...The short term period begins
with the trough currently over the region continuing to press
southeastward and away through Thursday, moving then into the Four
Corners region of the US and developing into a cutoff low. For the
PacNW, this system will continue to bring rain and mountain
snowfall along with breezy winds.

Snow levels have seen a decent descent this morning, with areas 
between 3.5-4kft expected to see a mix of rain to snow and areas 
above 4kft expected to see the bulk of snowfall through the late 
morning hours. This will continue to impact the peaks through 
passes of the region, creating a hazardous fall morning commute. 
The winter weather advisory for both the Blues and Cascades will 
remain in effect, with snowfall totals this morning expected 
between 5 to 10 inches across these mountain zones. Precipitation 
from this feature should begin departing late this morning into 
the early afternoon, but lingering activity across the Blues and 
Wallowas may continue during this time, finally subsiding by the 
evening. Meanwhile, a breezy day is in store as 850mb winds near 
40kts occur, mixing down across the Columbia Gorge through the 
Foothills of the Blues, and across the Kittitas Valley as well. 
Strongest wind gusts for the surface are expected between 30-35 
mph, but the potential for an isolated higher gust nearing 40 mph 
can't be ruled out. Finally, temperatures will be lowered thanks 
to the early morning cloud cover, but with some sun breaking 
through as clouds notably clear across the Columbia Basin, a few 
highs near 60 can't be ruled out, but upper 40's to 50's 
otherwise.

With the departure of the aforementioned trough, a transient ridge
takes its place, which will limit cloud cover during the afternoon
on Thursday and bring temperatures notably warmer for the day,
increasing by 5 to 10 degrees. Precipitation won't be fully 
removed however as light showers and mountain snow continue across
the Cascades, though with snow levels between 5-6kft, this should
be limited to the crests and peaks. Then on Friday a frontal 
boundary will approach and stall out across the region. This 
shouldn't bring significantly strong conditions as winds remain on
the lighter side and temperatures remain similar to Thursday, but
precip should overspread the foothills of the Cascades and stop 
just short of the Columbia Basin down through the Ochoco-John Day
Highlands. With snow levels now above 6kft, only the highest 
terrain should experience snow from this activity. Goatley/87

LONG TERM...Saturday through Wednesday...Active conditions 
continue through the extended forecast period with the upper-level 
pattern becoming increasingly progressive the latter half of the 
weekend into next week. Of particular interest is a weather 
disturbance dropping into the Pacific Northwest Sunday and Monday 
which has the potential to produce breezy to gusty winds from the 
Cascades through the Columbia basin as highlighted by the ECMWF 
Extreme Forecast Index. Widespread wind gusts of 30-40mph are 
possible although locally higher gusts cannot be ruled out at this 
point. Otherwise, noteworthy impacts shift more-so to mountain 
snowfall late in the period down to 3-4kft. The ECMWF and GEFS 
ensembles depict near to slightly above normal temperatures through 
Saturday followed by a shift to below normal temperatures into early 
next week. 

Both deterministic and ensemble guidance are in good agreement 
regarding the overall upper-level pattern to begin the extended 
period. Broad zonal flow will be in place across the Pacific 
Northwest due in-part to a strong upper-level low in the Gulf of 
Alaska with an accompanying weak cold-frontal boundary extending 
into the southern Washington and Oregon Cascades, becoming less 
defined over the interior. This frontal feature is slated to further 
weaken and slowly meander southward into Saturday night keeping 
light precipitation in place primarily over the Cascades. Although, 
some active bleeding further east can’t be ruled out as indicated by 
the ECWMF and GEFS ensembles even if the their deterministic counter 
parts are a little drier by comparison. Projected snow levels near 6
-7kft should keep mainline mountain pass snowfall concerns very 
limited through Sunday morning as well. 

The latter half of Sunday a second upper-level low in the Gulf of 
Alaska begins digging southward into British Columbia with a cold 
frontal boundary pushing ahead of it. It’s progression into the CWA 
starts rather slowly as indicated by most guidance before 
accelerating further Sunday night and Monday across the region into 
southern Oregon. Tightening isobars as it progresses likely leads to 
breezy to windy conditions for much of the CWA, focused over the 
Cascades through the Columbia Basin. Exploring the ECMWF Ensemble 
Members Viewer in these areas reveals decent agreement between the 
individual ensemble members during the late Sunday and Monday time 
period; gusts generally 30-40mph. Still, there remains a noteworthy 
number of outliers both above and below this range so confidence in 
forecasted wind gusts values fitted to this most likely scenario is 
only moderate at this time.  

Uncertainty continues to grow regarding the progression of the 
aforementioned upper-level trough diving southward Monday night 
through Tuesday and Wednesday, trending towards increasing pass 
snowfall impacts. Deterministic and ensemble diverge in both the 
depth and longitudinal placement of the above feature which would 
have QPF and snow-level implications going forward. These 
discrepancies are highlighted in the Ensemble Cluster Analysis, 
revealing several potential scenarios. One outcome worth mentioning 
depicted in cluster 1(30% of total ensemble members) containing a 
fair mix of ECMWF, GEFS, and Canadian members, and also mirrored in 
the deterministic GFS, has the trough transitioning to a closed low, 
taking a more westward progression down the Oregon Coast. Lower snow-
levels and thus higher snowfall/freeze related impacts would be 
expected should this play out, especially into the middle of the 
week. However, other solutions hedge the trough further east and are 
less amplified, lowering but certainly not eliminating these 
concerns. In either case, expect a trend towards 3-4kft snow-levels 
come Tuesday morning with further details on available QPF and 
temperature progression to be further resolved in the coming days. 
Schuldt/99

&&

.PRELIMINARY POINT TEMPS/POPS...
PDT  53  33  60  39 /  30   0   0   0 
ALW  55  36  60  42 /  30   0   0   0 
PSC  59  43  62  46 /  20  10   0   0 
YKM  57  32  59  38 /   0  10   0  20 
HRI  58  38  63  42 /  20   0   0   0 
ELN  52  34  58  38 /  10  20  10  30 
RDM  49  24  58  33 /  30  10   0   0 
LGD  44  26  50  33 /  60   0   0   0 
GCD  45  23  55  31 /  50   0   0   0 
DLS  57  39  62  43 /  20  20   0  20 

&&

.PDT WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
OR...Winter Weather Advisory until 5 PM PDT this afternoon for ORZ502.

     Winter Weather Advisory until 11 AM PDT this morning for ORZ509.

WA...Winter Weather Advisory until 5 PM PDT this afternoon for WAZ030.

     Winter Weather Advisory until 11 AM PDT this morning for WAZ520.

&&

$$

MORNING UPDATE...83
SHORT TERM...87
LONG TERM....99
AVIATION...86
