111 
FXUS61 KBGM 260551
AFDBGM

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Binghamton NY
151 AM EDT Wed Oct 26 2022

.SYNOPSIS...
Unsettled conditions will persist into Wednesday night as an 
upper level disturbance and cold front move through the area. 
Dry weather returns on Thursday, then continues into Sunday.

&&

.NEAR TERM /THROUGH TODAY/...
930 pm update... 

Nighttime microphysics is showing low level clouds filling back
in across most of the area with light southeasterly onshore 
flow, and high clouds associated with a low pressure system over
the Lower Midwest spreading in from the west. Some showers will
continue to be possible east of I-81. With dewpoints in the mid
and upper 50s, low temperatures will be mild again and mostly 
close to the dewpoints. Some patchy fog is possible but again 
most likely over the high terrain of the Catskills and Poconos. 

A cut off low over the Ohio Valley will lift northeast and
weaken tonight into Wednesday night. A band of showers will go
through our area in the afternoon and evening with a weak cold
front. Rainfall amounts will be less than a tenth of an inch.
With the warm flow high temperatures will rise into the upper 
60s and low and mid 70s. 

Wednesday night cooler air will return with low in the 40s.
Scattered to isolated showers will slowly lift out to the 
northeast.

&&

.SHORT TERM /TONIGHT THROUGH FRIDAY NIGHT/...
Overall, a very quiet short term period of weather is expected
with strong high pressure in firm control.

Following the passage of the cold front, much cooler weather is
expected for Thursday, but actually much closer to normal for
this time of the year (just a degree or two below normal). High
temperatures are expected to mainly be in the 50s. A lingering
northwest flow off of Lake Ontario may keep lake effect clouds
around for parts of the Finger Lakes Region during the morning,
but these will dissipate by the afternoon. Elsewhere, mostly
sunny skies are expected.

Decent radiational cooling conditions will allow for seasonably
cool temperatures Thursday night, with lows mainly in the 30s.
Mostly clear skies are expected, although higher clouds may
increase from west to east.

High pressure will keep conditions quiet on Friday along with
partly to mostly sunny skies. Temperatures will be seasonable
with high expected to be mainly in the 50s. More of the same 
expected Friday night, with mostly clear skies and seasonably 
cool temperatures (lows mainly in the 30s).

&&

.LONG TERM /SATURDAY THROUGH TUESDAY/...
High pressure will keep conditions dry for the weekend, along
with mostly sunny skies. A slow moderating trend in temperatures
is expected as the high moves east and a return flow develops.
High temperatures in the mid 50s to lower 60s are expected for
Saturday, while upper 50s to mid 60s are expected on Sunday.

The forecast for the beginning of next week (especially Monday)
becomes more unsettled as a low pressure system moves from the
Ohio Valley and into the Northeast. Exact timing and strength of
this low remains a bit uncertain this far out and therefore PoPs
are no higher than chance for now. Depending on how quickly this
system moves out, Tuesday will either have some lingering
showers around, or may be mainly dry. Seasonable temperatures
are expected with highs in the upper 50s to lower 60s.

&&

.AVIATION /06Z WEDNESDAY THROUGH SUNDAY/...


Clouds have filled in most gaps west of a rough SYR-ITH-ELM 
line, with generally MVFR ceilings. ITH will be touch-and-go
through sunrise, and BGM and AVP will see some brief IFR
ceilings, along with off and on drizzle.

Conditions will generally improve after mid-morning, with VFR
ceilings most likely outside of AVP. An incoming cold front will
bring scattered showers to the region this afternoon and
evening, and with a wind shift, should clear out the stubborn
low clouds overnight.

Outlook...

Late Wednesday night...Chance for scattered showers and 
associated restrictions. Otherwise mainly VFR.

Thursday through Sunday...Mainly VFR.

&&

.BGM WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
PA...None.
NY...None.

&&

$$
SYNOPSIS...TAC
NEAR TERM...HLC/TAC
SHORT TERM...BJG
LONG TERM...BJG
AVIATION...HLC/MPH
