007 
FXUS61 KBGM 262322
AFDBGM

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Binghamton NY
722 PM EDT Wed Oct 26 2022

.SYNOPSIS...
A passing cold front will bring a few showers to the region into
early this evening. From later tonight into the upcoming
weekend, a large area of high pressure will build in to result 
in dry weather. A slowly approaching disturbance should increase
the threat of rain from later Sunday into early next week.

Temperatures look a bit cooler and more seasonable through
Friday, but will trend milder again over the weekend.

&&

.NEAR TERM /THROUGH THURSDAY/...
Main changes with the early evening update were to update the 
coverage of showers through mid-evening focused in central NY 
now and gradually shifting east. QPF continues to look light. 
These showers are tied to an upper- level wave and an 
approaching surface cold front. 

Later tonight, although drier air/lower dew points will advect 
into the region at the surface, some moisture will likely get
trapped in the upper portion of the boundary layer under an
inversion, resulting in post-frontal stratocumulus clouds. The
addition of some lake moisture will also likely reinforce this
cloud mass. 

It will turn cooler, owing to steady low-level cold advection,
with lows by daybreak ranging from the upper 30s-mid 40s.

&&

.SHORT TERM /THURSDAY NIGHT THROUGH FRIDAY NIGHT/...
240 pm update... In the big picture, sprawling surface high
pressure will build in to bring dry weather. 

Early Thursday, lingering post-frontal low cloudiness is
expected to be around. However, as the day wears on, we expect
this cloud mass to gradually erode around the edges, with most
areas seeing at least breaks of sunshine by mid-afternoon.
Thereafter, although some high cloudiness could occasionally zip
across the region, we generally a fair amount of sunshine by day
and clear-partly cloudy conditions at night Friday and Saturday.

As for temperatures, they'll be seasonably chilly Thursday and
Friday, with afternoon highs ranging from the upper 40s-lower
50s across some of the higher terrain, to nearing 60 in the
Wyoming and Lackawanna Valleys. By Saturday, a notable warming
trend should commence, with daytime highs ranging from the mid-
upper 50s across the higher terrain, to the low-mid 60s in the
normally warmer valleys of the Finger Lakes and in the Wyoming
and Lackawanna Valleys.

&&

.LONG TERM /SATURDAY THROUGH WEDNESDAY/...
1 pm update... On the large-scale, a weakening southern stream
wave is expected to approach CNY/NEPA late in the weekend,
bringing the likelihood of rain, which could well last into
Monday. 

Next week, consensus of our various ensemble prediction systems
points to the gradual amplification of an eastern CONUS ridge,
as an upper trough digs into the western states. As a result,
there is fairly high confidence that above normal temperatures
will continue (daily highs into the 60s for most areas, with
some upper 50s across the higher terrain). Although there is
uncertainty with the exact timing, by later Monday/early 
Tuesday, we generally expect rain to depart to the northeast, 
with drier conditions setting in.

&&

.AVIATION /23Z WEDNESDAY THROUGH MONDAY/...

A passing cold front may bring a few light showers to SYR and
RME after 0Z tonight, but confidence is too low to add to the
forecast at this time. A cold front crosses the region overnight
and post- frontal low level moisture enhanced by the lakes will
bring some MVFR stratus. BGM will have the best chance to see
ceiling dip to just below MVFR for a few hours during the early
morning hours. 

Gradual improvement back towards VFR is will occur after about 
15z Thursday, as the lower level clouds slowly break up,
becoming mostly clear by Thursday afternoon.

Outlook...

Friday and Saturday...Early morning valley fog (especially 
KELM), but otherwise VFR expected.

Sunday into Monday...Restrictions may develop, as an area of
rain approaches the region.

&&

.BGM WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
PA...None.
NY...None.

&&

$$
SYNOPSIS...MPH
NEAR TERM...MPH/MWG
SHORT TERM...BTL
LONG TERM...BTL
AVIATION...MPK
