871 
FXUS61 KBGM 261833
AFDBGM

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Binghamton NY
Issued by National Weather Service State College PA
233 PM EDT Wed Oct 26 2022

.SYNOPSIS...
A passing cold front will bring a few showers to the region into
early this evening. From later tonight into the upcoming
weekend, a large area of high pressure will build in to result 
in dry weather. A slowly approaching disturbance should increase
the threat of rain from later Sunday into early next week.

Temperatures look a bit cooler and more seasonable through
Friday, but will trend milder again over the weekend. 

&&

.NEAR TERM /THROUGH TONIGHT/...
230 pm update... Regional radar loops showed bands of showers
rotating into CNY/NEPA late this afternoon, tied to an upper-
level wave and an approaching surface cold front. Overall, we
expect the showers to be light and scattered in nature, with
much of the shower activity exiting to the north and east during
the course of the evening. 

Later tonight, although drier air/lower dew points will advect 
into the region at the surface, some moisture will likely get
trapped in the upper portion of the boundary layer under an
inversion, resulting in post-frontal stratocumulus clouds. The
addition of some lake moisture will also likely reinforce this
cloud mass. 

It will turn cooler, owing to steady low-level cold advection,
with lows by daybreak ranging from the upper 30s-mid 40s.

&&

.SHORT TERM /THURSDAY THROUGH SATURDAY/...
240 pm update... In the big picture, sprawling surface high
pressure will build in to bring dry weather. 

Early Thursday, lingering post-frontal low cloudiness is
expected to be around. However, as the day wears on, we expect
this cloud mass to gradually erode around the edges, with most
areas seeing at least breaks of sunshine by mid-afternoon.
Thereafter, although some high cloudiness could occasionally zip
across the region, we generally a fair amount of sunshine by day
and clear-partly cloudy conditions at night Friday and Saturday.

As for temperatures, they'll be seasonably chilly Thursday and
Friday, with afternoon highs ranging from the upper 40s-lower
50s across some of the higher terrain, to nearing 60 in the
Wyoming and Lackawanna Valleys. By Saturday, a notable warming
trend should commence, with daytime highs ranging from the mid-
upper 50s across the higher terrain, to the low-mid 60s in the
normally warmer valleys of the Finger Lakes and in the Wyoming
and Lackawanna Valleys.

&&

.LONG TERM /SATURDAY NIGHT THROUGH TUESDAY/...
1 pm update... On the large-scale, a weakening southern stream
wave is expected to approach CNY/NEPA late in the weekend,
bringing the likelihood of rain, which could well last into
Monday. 

Next week, consensus of our various ensemble prediction systems
points to the gradual amplification of an eastern CONUS ridge,
as an upper trough digs into the western states. As a result,
there is fairly high confidence that above normal temperatures
will continue (daily highs into the 60s for most areas, with
some upper 50s across the higher terrain). Although there is
uncertainty with the exact timing, by later Monday/early 
Tuesday, we generally expect rain to depart to the northeast, 
with drier conditions setting in.

&&

.AVIATION /18Z WEDNESDAY THROUGH MONDAY/...
18z update... As some showers push through the region this
afternoon, occasional MVFR-fuel alternate restrictions can be
anticipated, particularly at KBGM and KAVP. 

Tonight, once the low-level flow veers around to the W-NW behind
a departing cold front, post-frontal and lake enhanced
stratocumulus clouds will build into the region and produce
widespread MVFR-fuel alternate ceiling bases.

Gradual improvement back towards VFR is foreseen after about 
15z Thursday, as the lower level clouds slowly break up. 

Outlook...

Friday and Saturday...Other than possible early morning valley
fog (especially KELM), mainly VFR.

Sunday into Monday...Restrictions may develop, as an area of
rain approaches the region.

&&

.BGM WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
PA...None.
NY...None.

&&

$$
SYNOPSIS...
NEAR TERM...
SHORT TERM...
LONG TERM...
AVIATION...
