360 
FXUS61 KBGM 261724
AFDBGM

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Binghamton NY
Issued by National Weather Service State College PA
124 PM EDT Wed Oct 26 2022

.SYNOPSIS...
Unsettled conditions will persist into tonight as an upper 
level disturbance and cold front move through the area. Dry 
weather and near-normal temperatures will return on Thursday, 
then continue into Sunday.

&&

.NEAR TERM /THROUGH TONIGHT/...
945 am update... Lower clouds and some spotty light
showers/patchy drizzle continue late this morning from about the
I-81 corridor eastward, with filtered sunshine fading behind 
thickening clouds back across the Finger Lakes region.

As we head through the afternoon, we expect the coverage of
showers to increase, as an upper-level wave approaches from the
southwest, along with the gradual approach of a surface cold
front from the west.

Temperatures are off to a very mild start this morning,
especially over the Catskills and Poconos, where clouds kept
readings from falling much last night. Afternoon highs should be
in the 60s for much of CNY/NEPA, with the normally warmer lake
plain areas to the north, as well as the Wyoming/Lackawanna
Valleys in NEPA, likely reaching the lower 70s. 

Previous discussion... 406 AM Update...

Low level SSE flow has allowed low clouds to remain in place
east of the Finger Lakes (and roughly east of I-81). Low level
flow will slowly veer to southerly later today, allowing the
lower clouds to start scouring out, but additional cloud cover
and scattered showers will develop in their place, perhaps after
a few hours' lag during which fair weather will prevail.

Showers will increase in coverage as a shortwave trough moves
into western NY late this afternoon, and a cold front pushes
through the area tonight. This will set the stage for a cooler
but drier spell heading into the weekend, though temperatures
will technically be near normal.

&&

.SHORT TERM /THURSDAY THROUGH SATURDAY/...
315 AM Update...

High pressure over the region will result in dry conditions and a 
quiet end to the week. Skies are clear to start Thursday night but 
then some high clouds begin to move in from the west. Mostly clear 
skies and decent radiational cooling will bring temperatures 
down into the upper 20s to mid 30s. Temperatures will rebound to
seasonal levels on Friday, maxing out in the 50s. Skies clear 
once again Friday night and it will be chilly with temperatures
falling into the upper 20s to mid 30s. The lows for both nights
were a combination of NBM, NBM tenth percentile, and Consall in
order to bring temperatures below guidance. Given the
combination of mostly clear skies, light winds, and high 
pressure, it will likely be colder than what NBM guidance is 
suggesting.

&&

.LONG TERM /SATURDAY NIGHT THROUGH TUESDAY/...
1 pm update... On the large-scale, a weakening southern stream
wave is expected to approach CNY/NEPA late in the weekend,
bringing the likelihood of rain, which could well last into
Monday. 

Next week, consensus of our various ensemble prediction systems
points to the gradual amplification of an eastern CONUS ridge,
as an upper trough digs into the western states. As a result,
there is fairly high confidence that above normal temperatures
will continue (daily highs into the 60s for most areas, with
some upper 50s across the higher terrain). Although there is
uncertainty with the exact timing, by later Monday/early 
Tuesday, we generally expect rain to depart to the northeast, 
with drier conditions setting in. 

&&

.AVIATION /18Z WEDNESDAY THROUGH MONDAY/...
18z update... As some showers push through the region this
afternoon, occasional MVFR-fuel alternate restrictions can be
anticipated, particularly at KBGM and KAVP. 

Tonight, once the low-level flow veers around to the W-NW behind
a departing cold front, post-frontal and lake enhanced
stratocumulus clouds will build into the region and produce
widespread MVFR-fuel alternate ceiling bases.

Gradual improvement back towards VFR is foreseen after about 
15z Thursday, as the lower level clouds slowly break up. 

Outlook...

Friday and Saturday...Other than possible early morning valley
fog (especially KELM), mainly VFR.

Sunday into Monday...Restrictions may develop, as an area of
rain approaches the region. 

&&

.BGM WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
PA...None.
NY...None.

&&

$$
SYNOPSIS...
NEAR TERM...
SHORT TERM...
LONG TERM...
AVIATION...
