779 
FXUS61 KBGM 260134
AFDBGM

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Binghamton NY
934 PM EDT Tue Oct 25 2022

.SYNOPSIS...
Unsettled conditions will persist into Wednesday night as an 
upper level disturbance and cold front move through the area. 
Dry weather returns on Thursday, then continues into Sunday.

&&

.NEAR TERM /THROUGH WEDNESDAY NIGHT/...
930 pm update... 

Nighttime microphysics is showing low level clouds filling back
in across most of the area with light southeasterly onshore 
flow, and high clouds associated with a low pressure system over
the Lower Midwest spreading in from the west. Some showers will
continue to be possible east of I-81. With dewpoints in the mid
and upper 50s, low temperatures will be mild again and mostly 
close to the dewpoints. Some patchy fog is possible but again 
most likely over the high terrain of the Catskills and Poconos. 

A cut off low over the Ohio Valley will lift northeast and
weaken tonight into Wednesday night. A band of showers will go
through our area in the afternoon and evening with a weak cold
front. Rainfall amounts will be less than a tenth of an inch.
With the warm flow high temperatures will rise into the upper 
60s and low and mid 70s. 

Wednesday night cooler air will return with low in the 40s.
Scattered to isolated showers will slowly lift out to the 
northeast.

&&

.SHORT TERM /THURSDAY THROUGH FRIDAY NIGHT/...
Overall, a very quiet short term period of weather is expected
with strong high pressure in firm control.

Following the passage of the cold front, much cooler weather is
expected for Thursday, but actually much closer to normal for
this time of the year (just a degree or two below normal). High
temperatures are expected to mainly be in the 50s. A lingering
northwest flow off of Lake Ontario may keep lake effect clouds
around for parts of the Finger Lakes Region during the morning,
but these will dissipate by the afternoon. Elsewhere, mostly
sunny skies are expected.

Decent radiational cooling conditions will allow for seasonably
cool temperatures Thursday night, with lows mainly in the 30s.
Mostly clear skies are expected, although higher clouds may
increase from west to east.

High pressure will keep conditions quiet on Friday along with
partly to mostly sunny skies. Temperatures will be seasonable
with high expected to be mainly in the 50s. More of the same 
expected Friday night, with mostly clear skies and seasonably 
cool temperatures (lows mainly in the 30s).

&&

.LONG TERM /SATURDAY THROUGH TUESDAY/...
High pressure will keep conditions dry for the weekend, along
with mostly sunny skies. A slow moderating trend in temperatures
is expected as the high moves east and a return flow develops.
High temperatures in the mid 50s to lower 60s are expected for
Saturday, while upper 50s to mid 60s are expected on Sunday.

The forecast for the beginning of next week (especially Monday)
becomes more unsettled as a low pressure system moves from the
Ohio Valley and into the Northeast. Exact timing and strength of
this low remains a bit uncertain this far out and therefore PoPs
are no higher than chance for now. Depending on how quickly this
system moves out, Tuesday will either have some lingering
showers around, or may be mainly dry. Seasonable temperatures
are expected with highs in the upper 50s to lower 60s.

&&

.AVIATION /02Z WEDNESDAY THROUGH SUNDAY/...
730 pm update...

While MVFR ceilings linger over ELM, VFR continues at most
terminals following an evening of clear skies. Clouds will fill
in over the next several hours, and ceilings fall back to MVFR
or fuel alternate at all terminals by 06Z. IFR ceilings will be
possible at BGM and AVP after 06Z as well. With a slight
improvement in ceilings at BGM and AVP, most terminals will be 
under MVFR ceilings through the morning. VFR will be possible at
RME, SYR, and ITH into the afternoon. Scattered rain showers
will move through during the afternoon and evening, so a brief
drop in visibility is not out of the question mainly for the NY
terminals. 

Tonight winds drop to 5 kts out of southeast. Wednesday winds 
will be south at 5 to 10 kts again with some gusts up to 14 to
17kts possible. 

Outlook...

Wednesday night...Chance for scattered showers and associated 
restrictions. Otherwise mainly VFR.

Thursday through Sunday...Mainly VFR.

&&

.BGM WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
PA...None.
NY...None.

&&

$$
SYNOPSIS...TAC
NEAR TERM...HLC/TAC
SHORT TERM...BJG
LONG TERM...BJG
AVIATION...HLC
