301 
FXUS61 KBGM 260755
AFDBGM

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Binghamton NY
355 AM EDT Wed Oct 26 2022

.SYNOPSIS...
Unsettled conditions will persist into Wednesday night as an 
upper level disturbance and cold front move through the area. 
Dry weather and near-normal temperatures will return on 
Thursday, then continue into Sunday.

&&

.NEAR TERM /THROUGH THURSDAY/...
406 AM Update...

Low level SSE flow has allowed low clouds to remain in place
east of the Finger Lakes (and roughly east of I-81). Low level
flow will slowly veer to southerly later today, allowing the
lower clouds to start scouring out, but additional cloud cover
and scattered showers will develop in their place, perhaps after
a few hours' lag during which fair weather will prevail.

Showers will increase in coverage as a shortwave trough moves
into western NY late this afternoon, and a cold front pushes
through the area tonight. This will set the stage for a cooler
but drier spell heading into the weekend, though temperatures
will technically be near normal. 

&&

.SHORT TERM /THURSDAY NIGHT THROUGH FRIDAY NIGHT/...
315 AM Update...

High pressure over the region will result in dry conditions and a 
quiet end to the week. Skies are clear to start Thursday night but 
then some high clouds begin to move in from the west. Mostly clear 
skies and decent radiational cooling will bring temperatures 
down into the upper 20s to mid 30s. Temperatures will rebound to
seasonal levels on Friday, maxing out in the 50s. Skies clear 
once again Friday night and it will be chilly with temperatures
falling into the upper 20s to mid 30s. The lows for both nights
were a combination of NBM, NBM tenth percentile, and Consall in
order to bring temperatures below guidance. Given the
combination of mostly clear skies, light winds, and high 
pressure, it will likely be colder than what NBM guidance is 
suggesting.

&&

.LONG TERM /SATURDAY THROUGH TUESDAY/...
315 AM Update...

High pressure will continue to bring dry conditions through at least 
Sunday. A stacked closed low develops in the Southern Plains on 
Sunday but opens up and turns into a trough as it moves 
northeast across the eastern half of CONUS. This feature and a 
surface low off the coast will bring increasing cloud cover and 
chances for showers Sunday night and into early next week. There 
continues to be some uncertainty on the timing of showers in the
region, so PoPs were lowered below guidance Sunday night as 
models trend drier. The better chance for multiple rounds of 
showers will be possible Monday and into Tuesday. Some lingering
showers may remain present by mid-week.

The warm temperatures will continue through this period. Highs will 
be in the 50s and 60s through mid-week. With high pressure and clear 
skies present, temperatures Saturday night will be chilly once 
again, falling into the the 30s across the region. Beyond Saturday, 
lows will be in the 40s and 50s as southwest flow and cloudy skies 
will keep temperatures more mild.

&&

.AVIATION /08Z WEDNESDAY THROUGH SUNDAY/...
Clouds have filled in most gaps west of a rough SYR-ITH-ELM 
line, with generally MVFR ceilings. ITH will be touch-and-go
through sunrise, and BGM and AVP will see some brief IFR
ceilings, along with off and on drizzle.

Conditions will generally improve after mid-morning, with VFR
ceilings most likely outside of AVP. An incoming cold front will
bring scattered showers to the region this afternoon and
evening, and with a wind shift, should clear out the stubborn
low clouds overnight.

Outlook...

Late Wednesday night...Chance for scattered showers and 
associated restrictions. Otherwise mainly VFR.

Thursday through Sunday...Mainly VFR.

&&

.BGM WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
PA...None.
NY...None.

&&

$$
SYNOPSIS...MPH
NEAR TERM...MPH
SHORT TERM...BTL
LONG TERM...BTL
AVIATION...HLC/MPH
