471 
FXUS65 KLKN 262058
AFDLKN

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Elko NV
158 PM PDT Wed Oct 26 2022

.SYNOPSIS...Scattered showers across portions of Elko County this
afternoon will taper off by the early evening hours. The gusty
winds across most of the region this afternoon will also be
diminishing into this evening. Temperatures tonight will be cold,
with low to mid teens in most valley locations. 

&&

.SHORT TERM...This evening through Thursday night. Trough energy
clipping NE Nevada this afternoon continues to produce gusty winds
across much of northern and central NV, along with light snow
showers to mainly just mountains across Elko County. Showers will
end and gusty winds will diminish into this evening as the trough
energy exits SE into Utah. A cold northwesterly flow aloft in
combination with diminish clouds will result in significantly
cooler low temperatures tonight with most valley locations
dropping into the low to mid teens. High and low temperatures 
through Thursday night will be below normal, with dry conditions
across all zones tonight through Thursday night. 

.LONG TERM...Friday to next Wednesday. Dry conditions will
dominate through Monday as a ridge remains over the region. 
Temperatures will moderate during this time with highs rising into  
the 50s/60s and lows in the 20s. Models and ensembles continue to  
bring in another cold front to the Pacific Northwest coast  
Monday/Tuesday. Current guidance shows the arrival of this front  
and its precipitation into northern Elko and Humboldt counties  
during the Tuesday/Wednesday timeframe. NBM is signaling increased 
southwesterly winds ahead of the font and temperatures falling 
into the 40s. Confidence is low on the front's arrival time in 
northern and central Nevada. However, this pattern change has been
noticed the past few days resulting in moderate to high 
confidence in a pattern change to cooler conditions next week. 

&&

.AVIATION...Wind gusts ranging to 26 kts will diminish through 
this afternoon evening in KWMC, KBAM, KELY and KEKO.  Wind gusts 
ranging from 20 to 26 kts will continue into the overnight hours in 
at KTPH before diminishing. NOTAM #WMC10-009 is in effect for 
KWMC through Thursday evening. 

&&

.FIRE WEATHER...Cool temperatures and elevated relative humidities 
will continue to mitigate fire concerns through the weekend. Winds
will however continue to be gusty the rest of this afternoon and
into the early evening hours, with strongest gusts of up to 35 
mph valleys and 45 mph mountains across zones 469 and 470. Light
rain and snow showers mainly across mountains of Elko County this
afternoon will also be tapering off by this evening. Thursday 
through the weekend all zones will be dry. 

&&

.LKN WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...None. 

&&

$$

96/89/89/96
