642 
FXUS65 KLKN 260806
AFDLKN

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Elko NV
106 AM PDT Wed Oct 26 2022

.SYNOPSIS...A quick system will move through northeastern Nevada
today bringing a chance of snow showers, with the best chances in
the mountains. Gusty winds kick up this afternoon, strongest in 
Elko County. Dry Thursday through the weekend with a slight 
warming trend.

&&

.SHORT TERM...Today through Thursday night

A shortwave will move through northeastern Nevada today, bringing
snow showers to mainly the mountains of Elko and northeastern 
Humboldt Counties, though valleys could see isolated showers as 
well. This will bring an inch or two of snow to the mountains and
less than 1/2" in valleys that experience a shower. Gusty winds 
can be expected with the system, especially in the northwest flow 
this afternoon, where strongest winds in Elko County will gust to 
35-40 mph. This is just under advisory criteria. A SPS will be 
issued to highlight the winds. A reinforcing shot of colder air 
will being cooler highs in the 30's and 40's to northern Nevada 
and the 40's and 50's in central Nevada. Clearing skies will allow
for cooler lows in the mid teens to lower 20's tonight and single
digits in the very coldest valleys. 

A shortwave ridge will build in on Thursday which will bring
mainly sunny skies, calmer winds, and temperatures about 3-5
degrees warmer than Wednesday. Lows Thursday night will be in the
mid teens to mid 20's. 

.LONG TERM...Friday to next Wednesday

Ensemble clusters and models agree on a weak ridge-like pattern 
setting up through Sunday night. As a result, dry weather and 
light winds are expected through this period. Highs will 
generally be in the 50s and 60s, with the warmest day looking 
like Monday, out ahead of the next potential weather system. 
Thursday night into Friday morning look to be the coolest, with 
temperatures likely in the teens to lower 20s. Otherwise morning 
lows are expected to be in the 20s and 30s. 

Monday through Wednesday: Ensemble cluster means are still in a 
little bit of disarray, with what will occur Monday afternoon and
beyond. Another large scale pattern shift does look likely, 
transitioning from weak ridging to a trough. The timing, 
placement, and how strong the trough will be continue to be worked
out by models and ensembles. Most ensemble solutions show a 
trough developing over the Pacific Northwest Monday evening into 
Tuesday, with the trough deepening sometime Tuesday into 
Wednesday. As mentioned above timing remains the biggest issue to 
resolve, as some models and ensembles are quicker to progress the 
trough, while others take the trough until the end of next week to
deepen. One thing to note, winds will likely be elevated during 
the afternoons to begin next week. Confidence is low beyond 
Monday, but run- to- run solutions will continue to be closely 
monitored.

.AVIATION...Mainly VFR conditions expected through the period.
Rain and snow showers possible across northern Nevada today and
may approach the northern taf sites, mainly EKO. Some mountain 
obscuration possible across the north. Brief MVFR CIGs possible 
at EKO with any showers. Winds increase to 15-20g23-30kts this 
afternoon and will decrease overnight, although they will stay 
elevated at TPH for most of the night. 87

&&

.FIRE WEATHER...Cool temperatures and elevated relative humidities 
will continue to mitigate fire concerns through the weekend. Winds
will however be gusty this afternoon, with strongest gusts of up 
to 35 mph valleys and 45 mph mountains across zones 469 and 470. 

&&

.LKN WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
None.
&&

$$

90/91/87/90
