532 
FXUS65 KLKN 260550
AFDLKN

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Elko NV
1050 PM PDT Tue Oct 25 2022

.SYNOPSIS...One last weak system will pass over northern and
central NV tonight through Wednesday afternoon, which will bring a
chance of rain and snow to the region along with gusty winds
Wednesday afternoon. Dry Thursday through the weekend. 

&&

.UPDATE...Updated Aviation section to account for AMD NOT SKED 
@ KWMC due to ASOS mechanical failure.


&&

.PREV DISCUSSION... /ISSUED AT 252 PM / 

SYNOPSIS...One last weak system will pass over northern and
central NV tonight through Wednesday afternoon, which will bring a
chance of rain and snow to the region along with gusty winds
Wednesday afternoon. Dry Thursday through the weekend. 

SHORT TERM...This evening through Wednesday night. A cold front
currently sliding SE through central NV may bring a few more light
showers to portions of central NV the rest of this afternoon and
into the early evening hours. A brief break in shower activity is
expected later this evening, however one last system currently
just upstream of NV will begin to push into Humboldt and Elko 
Counties later tonight. Most locations will remain dry tonight and
tomorrow, however mountains across Elko and White Pine Counties 
could see up to an inch or so of new snow by Wednesday afternoon.
Valley locations in northern Elko County (such as Wildhorse and
Jackpot) along with summits across Elko and White Pine County may
also see a couple light snow showers through Wednesday afternoon.
Winds will become gusty on Wednesday as this next system passes 
over the region. Strongest gusts of up to 35 mph are expected 
across valley locations in NE Elko County. Showers taper off by 
Wednesday evening. A cold northeasterly flow over the CWA 
Wednesday night will drop overnight lows into the teens for most 
locations Wednesday night into Thursday morning. 

LONG TERM...Thursday to next Tuesday. Northwest flow Thursday 
will continue daily high temperatures in the 40s/50s; rising from 
morning lows in the teens and 20s. Warmer air will return as a 
ridge builds into the region through the day leading to highs 
Friday and Saturday in the 50s/60s. Concern then turns toward the 
weekend and early next week. As the ridge exits Saturday, a weak 
shortwave will move through northwestern Humboldt county causing 
increased clouds and an isolated rain/snow shower late in the 
evening to overnight Sunday. Highs on Saturday will range from the
upper 40s to lower 50s in northern Humboldt county but in the 
upper 50s/lower 60s elsewhere. Lows Sunday morning will return to 
mid-October values ranging from the mid-20s to low 30s under 
cloudy skies. A post-Halloween storm could occur for northern 
Nevada as northwest flow brings in another chance for 
precipitation and continued seasonal temperatures early next week.
Highs in the 50s early next week will cool into the upper 20s 
overnight. Confidence is low on its arrival time and therefore, 
its impacts this far away. 

AVIATION...VFR conditions are expected for the next 24 hours at KWMC
and KBAM.  VFR conditions will continue into tomorrow morning in 
KEKO before lower ceiling heights and isolated rain showers 
bring a return to MVFR conditions for the morning. Lower ceilings
and isolated rain showers are possible this evening for KTPH and 
KELY resulting in periods of MVFR conditions. VFR conditions will
return for tomorrow at KWMC, KELY and KTPH. 

AMD NOT SKED KWMC due to ASOS mechanical failure.

FIRE WEATHER...Cool temperatures and elevated relative humidities 
will continue to mitigate fire concerns through the weekend. Winds
will however be gusty Wednesday afternoon, with strongest gusts 
of up to 35mph valleys and 45mph mountains across zones 469 and 
470. 

&&

.LKN WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
None.
&&

$$

90/99
