762 
FXUS63 KARX 262357
AFDARX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service La Crosse WI
657 PM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

.DISCUSSION...(This evening through Wednesday)
Issued at 239 PM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

Key Messages:

 - Mostly dry conditions expected to persist through early next
   week

 - Slight increase in temperatures through the weekend 

Increasing mid and high clouds through Thursday...

A weakening shortwave trough will move out of the Northern Plains 
tonight. With this system moving into a dry air mass, only expecting 
some mid- and high clouds from this system. Low temperatures tonight 
will be in the mid- and upper 20s across central and north-central 
Wisconsin and in the lower and mid-30s for the remainder of the area.
High temperatures on Thursday will be in the lower and mid-50s.

Thursday Night Through Wednesday...

The early part of the extended forecast will be dominated by split 
flow aloft, with an upper level trough expected to continue to dig 
into the Southern Plains by Friday. A weaker wave passing through 
the northern stream could bring some light showers Thursday 
evening/night, but most guidance keeps this to the southwest of our 
forecast area and weakens it through the night. Thus, a dry
forecast remains through the weekend for the local area. A small 
increase in high temperatures into the upper 50s and low/mid 60s 
is expected through early next week, supported by small spread 
(~3-5 degrees F) between the 25th and 75th percentiles of the NBM.

The southern stream system is forecasted to lift into the Mid-MS 
Valley/Ohio River Valley on Sunday/Sunday evening. Although a few 
EPS solutions (< 30%) show precipitation inching into our far 
southern WI counties as this system continues to move northeast, the 
majority of ensemble guidance suggests the precipitation will stay 
to our southeast, keeping dry conditions through the early part of 
next week. By mid week guidance suggests an upper level trough will 
move into the Pacific Coast, but there remains some differences 
between ensemble solutions on the strength and progression of this 
trough. With this, the spread in temperatures begins to increase 
towards the end of the forecast period, but generally stays in the 
50/60s into Wednesday. 

&&

.AVIATION...(For the 00Z TAFS through 00Z Thursday evening)
Issued at 657 PM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

VFR conditions are expected throughout the TAF period. 

Winds will eventually become from the south this evening within 
the next 3 hours. Wind speeds will remain less than 10 knots 
overnight, but just a touch higher near 10 knots tomorrow during
the day. Mid- to upper- level clouds moving in from the west will 
lead to VFR ceilings in the 10-20 kft AGL just after 06z. Although
KLSE being on the eastern edge of this field may occasionally 
bounce between scattered and broken coverage throughout the 
morning hours. 


&&

.ARX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
WI...NONE.
MN...NONE.
IA...NONE.
&&

$$

DISCUSSION...Boyne/EMS
AVIATION...Peters
