638 
FXUS63 KARX 261950
AFDARX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service La Crosse WI
250 PM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

.DISCUSSION...(This evening through Wednesday)
Issued at 239 PM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

Key Messages:

 - Mostly dry conditions expected to persist through early next
   week

 - Slight increase in temperatures through the weekend 


Increasing mid and high clouds through Thursday...

A weakening shortwave trough will move out of the Northern Plains 
tonight. With this system moving into a dry air mass, only expecting 
some mid- and high clouds from this system. Low temperatures tonight 
will be in the mid- and upper 20s across central and north-central 
Wisconsin and in the lower and mid-30s for the remainder of the area.
High temperatures on Thursday will be in the lower and mid-50s.

Thursday Night Through Wednesday...

The early part of the extended forecast will be dominated by split 
flow aloft, with an upper level trough expected to continue to dig 
into the Southern Plains by Friday. A weaker wave passing through 
the northern stream could bring some light showers Thursday 
evening/night, but most guidance keeps this to the southwest of our 
forecast area and weakens it through the night. Thus, a dry
forecast remains through the weekend for the local area. A small 
increase in high temperatures into the upper 50s and low/mid 60s 
is expected through early next week, supported by small spread 
(~3-5 degrees F) between the 25th and 75th percentiles of the NBM.


The southern stream system is forecasted to lift into the Mid-MS 
Valley/Ohio River Valley on Sunday/Sunday evening. Although a few 
EPS solutions (< 30%) show precipitation inching into our far 
southern WI counties as this system continues to move northeast, the 
majority of ensemble guidance suggests the precipitation will stay 
to our southeast, keeping dry conditions through the early part of 
next week. By mid week guidance suggests an upper level trough will 
move into the Pacific Coast, but there remains some differences 
between ensemble solutions on the strength and progression of this 
trough. With this, the spread in temperatures begins to increase 
towards the end of the forecast period, but generally stays in the 
50/60s into Wednesday. 

&&

.AVIATION...(For the 18Z TAFS through 18Z Thursday afternoon)
Issued at 111 PM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

The combination of a departing trough and cold air aloft will
result in a scattered to broken MVFR deck over western Wisconsin.
Due to this, included a scattered deck of these clouds for KLSE
this afternoon. 

High clouds will move into the area tonight as a shortwave moves
out of the Northern Plains. These clouds will then become mid
clouds on Thursday morning.


&&

.ARX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
WI...NONE.
MN...NONE.
IA...NONE.
&&

$$

DISCUSSION...Boyne/EMS
AVIATION...Boyne
