058 
FXUS63 KARX 260305
AFDARX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service La Crosse WI
1000 PM CDT Tue Oct 25 2022 

.DISCUSSION...(This evening through Tuesday)
Issued at 215 PM CDT Tue Oct 25 2022

Key Messages:

 - A few showers possible through early tonight in far eastern 
   counties

 - Remaining dry and seasonable through the end of October

Tonight: Slight chance of showers across far eastern counties

GOES water vapor imagery shows another wave of energy across 
southern Missouri this afternoon that is transporting moisture 
northward. This moisture transport is bringing showers along the 
Iowa/Illinois border this afternoon, but as this wave of energy 
continues to lift towards the Great Lakes along a remnant frontal 
axis, it may bring another shower or two across the far eastern 
service area - however, most of the activity should remain well to 
the east along Lake Michigan and into Illinois. Clearing from west 
to east is expected this evening into tonight which will allow temps 
to fall into the low 30s for most, a few locations across west-
central Wisconsin may dip into the upper 20s. Enough wind and high 
cirrus clouds moving into the region tonight should keep temps from 
falling off too much.

Wednesday into Thursday: Slightly below normal temperatures and dry

High pressure, northwest flow, and drier air move into the area 
behind the cold front that will last through Wednesday night. As the 
surface high pressure shifts east to the Great Lakes, weak southerly 
flow will return on Thursday, but there won't be much warming 
expected with it. Meanwhile a wave begins to dig south from Idaho 
into the Rockies Wednesday night. This wave is expected close off 
and become a separated southern stream as it slowly moves into the 
Four Corners region Thursday afternoon. As this trough settles into 
the SW US, a strengthening northern stream jet will bring upper-
level divergence and mid-level confluent flow across southwestern 
Minnesota on Thursday - leading to some light rain shower potential 
that looks to remain mainly west of I-35 and our service area.

Friday through the Weekend: Remaining dry with temps near normal

The northern stream trough will move through the Upper Midwest on 
Friday as ridging builds in behind it. At the same time, the 
southern stream upper-level closed low will slowly move east across 
Texas and Oklahoma. This pattern will favor a persistence-based 
forecast where temperatures remain in the mid 50s to near 60 and 
lows in the mid 30s to near 40. Clustered guidance through this 
weekend suggests a lower spread among the models as the cutoff low 
begins to lift into the Tennessee and Ohio River Valleys. While it 
is possible the southern extent of our area is clipped with light 
rain, the majority of ensemble guidance keeps the area of 
precipitation well to our south and east. Around a 5 degree 
Fahrenheit temperature spread between the 25th and 75th percentiles 
is present by Halloween, with the mean temps in the mid to upper 50s.

&&

.AVIATION...(For the 06Z TAFS through 06Z Wednesday night)
Issued at 1000 PM CDT Tue Oct 25 2022

CIGS:a few high clouds will continue to linger overnight, with SKC 
favored for the better part of the Wed. HOWEVER - there is an 
expansive cloud deck of low VFR (4-5kft) across northern MN pushing 
southeast. Most model trends keep these north of the TAF sites, but 
could threaten KLSE for a few hours after 18z. For now, will stick 
with a SKC/SCT forecast and monitor. 

Next, looking for an increase in high/mid level VFR clouds overnight 
Wed as a shortwave trough lifts northeast out of the southern 
plains. 

WX/vsby: no impacts expected.

WINDS: northwest generally holding under 10 kts through Wed 
afternoon, becoming light south/southeast with some decoupling Wed 
night. 

&&

.ARX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
WI...NONE.
MN...NONE.
IA...NONE.
&&

$$

DISCUSSION...JAW
AVIATION...Rieck
