529 
FXUS63 KARX 260745
AFDARX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service La Crosse WI
245 AM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

.DISCUSSION...(Today through Tuesday)
Issued at 245 AM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

Key Messages:

 - Mainly dry weather expected through early next week with temps
   trending back above average late this week.

Early this morning, a mid-level circulation was evident on water 
vapor imagery across the Ohio Valley with an additional shortwave 
trough approaching the western Great Lakes. Dry weather is
expected today with subsidence behind the shortwave trough, but 
modest low-level cold advection will hold temps a few degrees 
below average.

On Thursday, an upper level trough is forecast to dig across the 
Four Corners region, slowly meandering east across the southern 
plains towards the Mid-MS Valley through the weekend. To the north, 
a weaker northern stream wave will pass east across the Upper MS 
Valley later Thursday into Friday with little in the way of precip
expected locally. The 25.12Z EPS showed only a ~10% probability 
of at least 0.01" of rain westward approaching the I-35 corridor.
Have maintained a dry forecast.

Otherwise, a split flow pattern will remain in place into early next 
week with the stronger westerlies across southern Canada and surface 
high pressure in place from the Upper Midwest into the Great Lakes 
through the start of the weekend. Global ensembles show small 
temperature spread late this week through early next week with 
gradually warming highs through the 50s and 60s expected. Right 
now most guidance favors continued dry weather through the weekend
with any precip with the southern stream low pressure system 
likely staying south at this time.

&&

.AVIATION...(For the 06Z TAFS through 06Z Wednesday night)
Issued at 1000 PM CDT Tue Oct 25 2022

CIGS:a few high clouds will continue to linger overnight, with SKC 
favored for the better part of the Wed. HOWEVER - there is an 
expansive cloud deck of low VFR (4-5kft) across northern MN pushing 
southeast. Most model trends keep these north of the TAF sites, but 
could threaten KLSE for a few hours after 18z. For now, will stick 
with a SKC/SCT forecast and monitor. 

Next, looking for an increase in high/mid level VFR clouds overnight 
Wed as a shortwave trough lifts northeast out of the southern 
plains. 

WX/vsby: no impacts expected.

WINDS: northwest generally holding under 10 kts through Wed 
afternoon, becoming light south/southeast with some decoupling Wed 
night. 


&&

.ARX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
WI...NONE.
MN...NONE.
IA...NONE.
&&

$$

DISCUSSION...JM
AVIATION...Rieck
