405 
FXUS61 KBTV 260147
AFDBTV

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Burlington VT
947 PM EDT Tue Oct 25 2022

.SYNOPSIS...
Near record warm and humid conditions will persist until 
Thursday morning when a cold front pushes eastward through the 
region. Scattered showers are expected Wednesday afternoon and 
evening, then sharply drier conditions arrive on Thursday. Rain 
chances drop to zero by Thursday night areawide with quiet 
weather continuing through Sunday. Dry air will support large 
swings in temperature from chilly morning lows to seasonably 
mild highs.

&&

.NEAR TERM /THROUGH WEDNESDAY NIGHT/...
As of 944 PM EDT Tuesday...The forecast is in good shape,
tonight. Maritime moisture continues to plod along, and looks
about ready to reach Springfield, Vermont. Rain seems sparse at
this time, but there's certainly abundant clouds. Previous 
discussion below...

The southerly warm and moist flow regime we are in today will 
continue through tomorrow night as a strong northwestern 
Atlantic ridge holds strong ahead of an amplified trough digging
over the Mississippi Valley. Said trough will lift 
northeastward into northern New York tomorrow evening and drag a
cold front through our region to end this stagnant pattern. The
timing of the front during the nighttime hours and departure of
rich moisture to the east keeps us from seeing larger impacts 
than just a wind shift and arrival of lower humidity air.

While we currently have a wedge of dry air aloft quashing cloud
cover, an invigoration of moisture will return from the 
southeast as a disorganized area of tropical low pressure gets 
pushed towards southern New England. Scattered showers will once
again move from south to north, but the low-level convergence 
between two areas of low pressure will help induce a relatively 
large area of precipitation. Rainfall amounts, while still 
mainly 0.25" or less, have trended upwards given the better 
surface convergence/lifting mechanism. Deeper moisture, by proxy
>80% relative humidity at 700 millibars, will overspread the 
region during the day from the south. Ingredients for downpours 
exists for the showers that move through the region. These 
include precipitable water greater than 200% of normal and some 
instability given the rich low level moisture and modest daytime
heating, upwards of 250 J/kg most unstable CAPE. Temperatures 
will be sensitive to increasing cloud cover, but will tend to be
warm once again reaching the mid 60s to low 70s areawide. 
Expect very mild nighttime conditions prior to the cold frontal 
passage late Wednesday night, as well, in the upper 50s to low 
60s in most locations.

&&

.SHORT TERM /THURSDAY THROUGH THURSDAY NIGHT/...
As of 318 PM EDT Tuesday...The aforementioned cold front will 
slide through the North Country during the morning hours with 
lingering rain chances rapidly coming to an end. Cooler and 
drier air will filter quickly into the region which will cause a
clash between decreasing cloud cover, increasing sunlight, and 
cold air advection. Temperatures are expected to warm a few 
degrees through the day but not much given the degree of cold 
air advection. Nevertheless, slightly above normal temperatures 
are expected Thursday afternoon. Gusty northwest winds up to 25 
mph will develop post-frontal but will quickly abate as the 
surface and boundary layer decouple close to sunset. With clear 
skies, decreasing winds, and cold air developing across the 
region, we should see a very good night for radiational cooling.
Another feature to note will be a 1036-1028 mb high that sets 
up just to the north of the International Border. This should 
allow for cold air drainage into the northern Champlain Valley 
with Burlington approaching it's potential first freeze of the 
fall season. Elsewhere, temperatures will be a good bit below 
normals with lows in the lower 20s to lower 30s expected.

&&

.LONG TERM /FRIDAY THROUGH TUESDAY/...
As of 318 PM EDT Tuesday...Strong surface high pressure will be
fully in control of out weather on Friday although weak 
shortwave energy aloft may yield some high clouds during the 
daylight hours. These clouds are expected to fizzle away during 
the evening hours with another cold night with good radiational 
cooling. The latest probabilistic NBM shows a higher probability
of freezing or colder temperatures at Burlington and the latest
forecast now reflects this. Elsewhere, temperatures comparable 
to those seen on Friday morning will again be observed. Seasonal
temperatures are expected Saturday through the first half of 
next week as we remain under the influence of the aforementioned
surface high before it begins to shift east on Monday/Tuesday. 
This should allow rain chance to begin creeping up on Monday and
increase into Tuesday as an upper level trough over the central
US helps to advect some modified Gulf of Mexico moisture up 
into the region.

&&

.AVIATION /02Z WEDNESDAY THROUGH SUNDAY/...
Through 00Z Thursday...VFR conditions at all terminals 
currently, but anticipate lower ceilings moving back into the 
region from the east at MPV and EFK overnight. Greater moisture 
and resurgence of MVFR/IFR conditions through much of the 
airspace is expected to expand from south to north Wednesday 
morning. South/southeasterly winds in the 5 to 10 knots range. 
Have included VCSH beginning around 13-16z tomorrow, earlier 
south. 

Outlook...

Wednesday Night: Mainly VFR, with local MVFR possible. Chance
SHRA.
Thursday: Mainly VFR, with local MVFR possible. NO SIG WX.
Thursday Night: VFR. NO SIG WX.
Friday: VFR. NO SIG WX.
Friday Night: VFR. NO SIG WX.
Saturday: VFR. NO SIG WX.
Saturday Night: VFR. NO SIG WX.
Sunday: VFR. NO SIG WX.

&&

.CLIMATE...
Record high minimum (warm low) temperatures for Wednesday, 
October 26th are forecast. At KBTV, the standing record is 58 in
1991. At KPBG, the standing record is 53, also in 1991.

&&

.BTV WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
VT...None.
NY...None.

&&

$$
SYNOPSIS...Kutikoff
NEAR TERM...Haynes/Kutikoff
SHORT TERM...Clay
LONG TERM...Clay
AVIATION...Neiles
CLIMATE...WFO BTV
