397 
FXUS61 KBTV 260816
AFDBTV

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Burlington VT
416 AM EDT Wed Oct 26 2022

.SYNOPSIS...
Mild and humid conditions will persist until Thursday morning when a 
cold front will push eastward across the North Country. Scattered 
showers are expected today and tonight, then sharply drier 
conditions arrive on Thursday behind the cold front. Broad high 
pressure will keep the drier and cooler conditions around through 
the weekend.

&&

.NEAR TERM /THROUGH THURSDAY/...
As of 410 AM EDT Wednesday...Another mild and showery day expected
today as low pressure slowly meanders northward off the East Coast.
We're already seeing maritime moisture wrap around this low and up
into our area early this morning, as evidenced by light showers and
areas of drizzle and fog from the central Greens south and 
eastward. More robust shower activity can be seen lifting up 
into southern New England, and expect this to spread into our 
region from north to south through the morning hours. Showers 
should become fairly widespread, particularly across 
southern/central VT, as the low eventually skirts by Cape Cod 
and then starts to push eastward toward Nova Scotia. It should 
be noted that while the best moisture will remain shunted to our
east, still expect PWATs to approach 1.50 inches which is 
pretty respectable for late October. THerefore wouldn't be 
surprised for some showers to produce some briefly heavy 
rainfall rates this morning into the early afternoon. Meanwhile,
another low pressure system will shift from IN/IL and push 
northeast across the the Great Lakes and into Ontario, remaining
west of the St Lawrence Valley, dragging its attendant cold 
frontal boundaries in its wake. Expect much of northern NY will 
stay relatively dry today as they'll remain between these two 
low pressure systems, but as the first cold front approaches the
St Lawrence Valley late today into this evening, showers will 
shift eastward out of Ontario and across the St Lawrence. With 
continuing south/southeast flow, today will once again be mild, 
especially along the north slopes of the Adirondacks and into 
the St Lawrence Valley, as well as portions of the northern 
Champlain Valley. Downsloping winds and more sunshine in these 
areas will allow highs to warm into the lower to mid 70s, which 
is near record for some locations (see Climate section below for
additional details). Meanwhile, more clouds will keep 
temperatures a little cooler but still above normal; highs away 
from the aforementioned zones will be in the mid 60s to around 
70, with areas east of the central/southern Greens remaining 
coolest as clouds and showers will be most persistent there.

Showers will wind down over VT this evening as the coastal low pulls
away to the east, but showers will continue to spread eastward from
the St Lawrence Valley this evening/overnight as the inland low
moves eastward north of the international border. The frontal
boundary will cross the region this evening, turning winds to the
west/southwest. A secondary cold front will follow late tonight into
early Thursday, with gusty northwest winds expected thereafter.
THerefore, widespread showers across NY this evening will become
more focused on the western upslope sides of the Adirondacks and
northern Greens before winding down early Thursday. Rainfall
totalswill be fairly variable for this event, ranging from a 
quarter to half an inch in eastern/central VT, to a tenth of an 
inch or less for most areas from the Champlain Valley westward.

Thursday will feel sharply colder behind the secondary front, with
cold air rushing in on brisk northwest winds. Any lingering upslope
showers will quickly come to an end as drier air spreads over the
region. Clouds will be a little slower to dissipate, but expect
everyone will see sunshine by mid afternoon. Highs will range from
the upper 40s in the Adirondacks to the upper 50s in the southern
Champlain and CT River Valleys.

&&

.SHORT TERM /THURSDAY NIGHT/...
As of 318 PM EDT Tuesday...The aforementioned cold front will 
slide through the North Country during the morning hours with 
lingering rain chances rapidly coming to an end. Cooler and 
drier air will filter quickly into the region which will cause a
clash between decreasing cloud cover, increasing sunlight, and 
cold air advection. Temperatures are expected to warm a few 
degrees through the day but not much given the degree of cold 
air advection. Nevertheless, slightly above normal temperatures 
are expected Thursday afternoon. Gusty northwest winds up to 25 
mph will develop post-frontal but will quickly abate as the 
surface and boundary layer decouple close to sunset. With clear 
skies, decreasing winds, and cold air developing across the 
region, we should see a very good night for radiational cooling.
Another feature to note will be a 1036-1028 mb high that sets 
up just to the north of the International Border. This should 
allow for cold air drainage into the northern Champlain Valley 
with Burlington approaching it's potential first freeze of the 
fall season. Elsewhere, temperatures will be a good bit below 
normals with lows in the lower 20s to lower 30s expected.

&&

.LONG TERM /FRIDAY THROUGH TUESDAY/...
As of 318 PM EDT Tuesday...Strong surface high pressure will be
fully in control of out weather on Friday although weak 
shortwave energy aloft may yield some high clouds during the 
daylight hours. These clouds are expected to fizzle away during 
the evening hours with another cold night with good radiational 
cooling. The latest probabilistic NBM shows a higher probability
of freezing or colder temperatures at Burlington and the latest
forecast now reflects this. Elsewhere, temperatures comparable 
to those seen on Friday morning will again be observed. Seasonal
temperatures are expected Saturday through the first half of 
next week as we remain under the influence of the aforementioned
surface high before it begins to shift east on Monday/Tuesday. 
This should allow rain chance to begin creeping up on Monday and
increase into Tuesday as an upper level trough over the central
US helps to advect some modified Gulf of Mexico moisture up 
into the region.

&&

.AVIATION /08Z WEDNESDAY THROUGH SUNDAY/...
Through 06Z Thursday...Currently a mix of MVFR/VFR across the
region, but with maritime moisture streaming into the area,
expect ceilings to gradually lower to MVFR from southeast to
northwest at all terminals by 15z Wednesday. These ceilings,
with local IFR in patchy fog/drizzle, will persist through much
of the rest of the day, with some improvement late in the TAF 
period as a frontal boundary crosses the region. Scattered
showers will affect all terminals through the period as well,
and briefly reduced visibility to 4-6SM will be possible in
heavier precipitation. Winds generally S/SW around 5 kt through
14z, then increasing to 5-10 kt during the day. These will
transition to W and eventually NW as the front moves through
late Wednesday evening. 

Outlook...

Thursday: Mainly VFR, with local MVFR possible. NO SIG WX.
Thursday Night: VFR. NO SIG WX.
Friday: VFR. NO SIG WX.
Friday Night: VFR. NO SIG WX.
Saturday: VFR. NO SIG WX.
Saturday Night: VFR. NO SIG WX.
Sunday: VFR. NO SIG WX.

&&

.CLIMATE...
Record warm minimum temperatures were set yesterday, October 
25th, at BTV and MPV (see RERBTV for details). Additional 
temperature records may be set as well; the record high for MSS 
for today is 74, and we currently have 76 in the forecast. As 
far as warm low temperatures for today, that will depend upon 
the timing of a cold frontal passage overnight tonight and how 
quickly temperatures fall before midnight. At this time, BTV
and PBG both look to have a chance to break their records, which
are 58 and 53, respectively. 

&&

.BTV WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
VT...None.
NY...None.

&&

$$
SYNOPSIS...Hastings
NEAR TERM...Hastings
SHORT TERM...Clay
LONG TERM...Clay
AVIATION...Hastings
CLIMATE...WFO BTV
