293 
FXUS61 KBTV 262356
AFDBTV

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Burlington VT
756 PM EDT Wed Oct 26 2022

.SYNOPSIS...
Warm and humid conditions will give way to more seasonable 
weather behind a cold front Thursday morning. Ahead of the 
front, scattered showers are expected primarily in northern New 
York, then sharply drier conditions arrive Thursday morning 
behind the front. Broad high pressure will keep the drier and 
cooler conditions around through the weekend. Rain chances 
return Monday afternoon through Tuesday, then high pressure 
returns midweek with temperatures remaining above normal.

&&

.NEAR TERM /THROUGH THURSDAY NIGHT/...
As of 748 PM EDT Wednesday...No significant changes for the 
evening update. We have showers lifting across Northern New York
and entering the Champlain valley now. Additional showers 
upstream so will have more before all of the precipitation lifts
north of the region overnight. Just tweaked temperatures for 
the overnight based on current observations. Previous discussion
follows. 

Our region is currently squeezed between two areas of low 
pressure with fair weather in the middle supporting temperatures
more typical of late summer. Infrared satellite imagery shows a
large area of colder cloud tops just east of Vermont associated
with a feed of tropical moisture funneled around surface low 
pressure just east of Cape Cod. On the western fringe of this 
system, some of this moisture made it into eastern Vermont where
locally heavy rain fell, but failed to make it west of the 
Green Mountains. 

At the same time, looking to our west there is a potent upper 
level shortwave analyzed over northwestern Pennsylvania; the 
associated pre-frontal trough will interact with the 
unseasonably warm and humid air in northern New York this 
evening. Modest deep layer shear resulting in 30 knots of 
effective bulk shear and about 250 to 500 J/kg CAPE do suggest 
non-zero thunder chances, but a lot of dry mid-level air 
entrainment is expected to minimize development. So we have the 
idea of scattered showers trending numerous for a short time as 
the trough moves overhead. The storm track is still 
northeastward such that shower chances dwindle south and east of
a line from roughly Lake Placid to Island Pond. Then behind the
pre-frontal trough, lingering moisture will be sufficient for 
only limited, mainly high terrain showers overnight prior to the
cold front's arrival towards daybreak.

For tomorrow, cold air advection will be rather impressive 
given the pressure gradient and wind direction. Northwesterly 
low level flow will transport polar air into the region below a 
shallow post-frontal inversion. As a result, temperatures will 
be steady or slightly fall during the day despite sunshine, with
highs ranging from the mid 40s to low 50s in most locations. 
Gusty west winds, upwards of 30 MPH in favored downsloping 
locations, will trend northwesterly quickly behind the front, 
with widespread breezy conditions during the day.

Tomorrow night still looks rather cold as high pressure settles
into the region with dry air through the troposphere supporting
a strong radiational cooling night. Timing and location of the 
high pressure area is of some concern, however, with impact on 
northerly drainage flow in the northern Champlain Valley of some
question as northerly flow during the daytime relaxes. Forecast
low temperatures generally look to be 32 and below areawide 
given the favorable conditions for cold temperatures, including 
ever lengthening nights.

&&

.SHORT TERM /FRIDAY THROUGH FRIDAY NIGHT/...
A 1036 mb high will be centered across Vermont on Friday which 
should allow for good diurnal heating following the first fall 
freeze for Burlington. Temperatures will rebound into the lower 
50s with light winds and plenty of sunshine expected throughout 
the day. Temperatures again will drop quickly with the latest 
guidance now suggesting below freezing temperatures across the 
North Country Friday night.

&&

.LONG TERM /SATURDAY THROUGH WEDNESDAY/...
The aforementioned surface high will begin to weaken and shift 
to the east on Saturday which will allow winds to slowly back to
the southwest throughout the day. Dry conditions are expected 
to continue through Monday morning with deteriorating conditions
expected throughout the day. An upper level disturbance riding 
along the eastern periphery of the upper level trough will help 
advect some modified Gulf of Mexico moisture up into New 
England. This should help produce numerous rain showers across 
the region Monday afternoon, evening and during the overnight 
period. We aren't expecting a large swath of rain at this time 
but scattered showers could very well occur during trick-or-
treating. Stay tuned for updates over the next several days! A 
few rain showers are expected to linger through the first half 
of Tuesday as the upper level trough axis slide through the 
region. Thereafter, another surface high pressure system is 
expected to move overhead with a continuation of above normal 
temperatures and drier weather across the North Country.

&&

.AVIATION /00Z THURSDAY THROUGH MONDAY/...
Through 00Z Friday...Showers and low clouds are moving into the
area tonight ahead of a frontal boundary. Mostly VFR conditions
for the first few hours of the period, with tempos in for 
occasional lower ceilings to MVFR and lower visibilities in 
showers, 5SM but there's the potential for lower vis if a shower
becomes heavy. Ceilings are anticipated to become more solidly 
MVFR later tonight and early tomorrow morning around 03Z-05Z 
Thursday for NY sites and 08Z-10Z Thursday for VT sites. 
Throughout the day tomorrow, clouds will begin to lift and 
scatter apart, leading to VFR returning. 

Winds largely out of the south and southeast early tonight will
turn more northwesterly with the frontal passage overnight. 
Winds will be strong ahead of and behind the front, gusting to 
20 knots throughout the morning and even potentially into the 
afternoon tomorrow. LLWS is possible in the Champlain Valley 
overnight, but not enough confidence to put it in the TAF.

Outlook...

Thursday Night: VFR. NO SIG WX.
Friday: VFR. NO SIG WX.
Friday Night: VFR. NO SIG WX.
Saturday: VFR. NO SIG WX.
Saturday Night: VFR. NO SIG WX.
Sunday: VFR. NO SIG WX.
Sunday Night: Mainly VFR, with local MVFR possible. Slight chance
SHRA.
Monday: Mainly MVFR, with local VFR possible. Chance SHRA.

&&

.CLIMATE...
Record warm minimum temperatures were set yesterday, October 
25th, at BTV and MPV (see RERBTV for details). Additional high
temperature records were set today at MSS and BTV. As far as 
warm low temperatures for today, that will depend upon the 
timing of a cold frontal passage overnight tonight and how 
quickly temperatures fall before midnight. At this time, BTV and
PBG both look to have a chance to break their records, which 
are 58 and 53, respectively.

&&

.BTV WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
VT...None.
NY...None.

&&

$$
SYNOPSIS...Kutikoff
NEAR TERM...Kutikoff/Neiles
SHORT TERM...Clay
LONG TERM...Clay
AVIATION...Storm
CLIMATE...WFO BTV
