250 
FXUS61 KBTV 261435
AFDBTV

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Burlington VT
1035 AM EDT Wed Oct 26 2022

.SYNOPSIS...
Mild and humid conditions will persist until Thursday morning when a 
cold front will push eastward across the North Country. Scattered 
showers are expected today and tonight, then sharply drier 
conditions arrive on Thursday behind the cold front. Broad high 
pressure will keep the drier and cooler conditions around through 
the weekend.

&&

.NEAR TERM /THROUGH THURSDAY/...
As of 1035 AM EDT Wednesday...Further changes to PoPs were made
with this update as corridor of showers with pockets of heavy 
rain has settled into eastern Vermont, primarily Orange County 
northward. It should very slowly continue shifting north and 
east, so these areas will likely see occasional showers for much
of the midday hours. Meanwhile, light showers are now appearing
on radar over the eastern Champlain Valley/western slopes of 
the Greens; however, GOES-16 day cloud phase distinction 
satellite imagery indicates lack of vertical development of 
clouds in that corridor and little more than drizzle is 
expected. Minor changes to clouds and temperatures were also
made with this update, but forecast is in good shape overall.

Previous discussion...Another mild and showery day expected
today as low pressure slowly meanders northward off the East Coast.
We're already seeing maritime moisture wrap around this low and up
into our area early this morning, as evidenced by light showers and
areas of drizzle and fog from the central Greens south and 
eastward. More robust shower activity can be seen lifting up 
into southern New England, and expect this to spread into our 
region from north to south through the morning hours. Showers 
should become fairly widespread, particularly across 
southern/central VT, as the low eventually skirts by Cape Cod 
and then starts to push eastward toward Nova Scotia. It should 
be noted that while the best moisture will remain shunted to our
east, still expect PWATs to approach 1.50 inches which is 
pretty respectable for late October. THerefore wouldn't be 
surprised for some showers to produce some briefly heavy 
rainfall rates this morning into the early afternoon. Meanwhile,
another low pressure system will shift from IN/IL and push 
northeast across the the Great Lakes and into Ontario, remaining
west of the St Lawrence Valley, dragging its attendant cold 
frontal boundaries in its wake. Expect much of northern NY will 
stay relatively dry today as they'll remain between these two 
low pressure systems, but as the first cold front approaches the
St Lawrence Valley late today into this evening, showers will 
shift eastward out of Ontario and across the St Lawrence. With 
continuing south/southeast flow, today will once again be mild, 
especially along the north slopes of the Adirondacks and into 
the St Lawrence Valley, as well as portions of the northern 
Champlain Valley. Downsloping winds and more sunshine in these 
areas will allow highs to warm into the lower to mid 70s, which 
is near record for some locations (see Climate section below for
additional details). Meanwhile, more clouds will keep 
temperatures a little cooler but still above normal; highs away 
from the aforementioned zones will be in the mid 60s to around 
70, with areas east of the central/southern Greens remaining 
coolest as clouds and showers will be most persistent there.

Showers will wind down over VT this evening as the coastal low pulls
away to the east, but showers will continue to spread eastward from
the St Lawrence Valley this evening/overnight as the inland low
moves eastward north of the international border. The frontal
boundary will cross the region this evening, turning winds to the
west/southwest. A secondary cold front will follow late tonight into
early Thursday, with gusty northwest winds expected thereafter.
THerefore, widespread showers across NY this evening will become
more focused on the western upslope sides of the Adirondacks and
northern Greens before winding down early Thursday. Rainfall
totals will be fairly variable for this event, ranging from a 
quarter to half an inch in eastern/central VT, to a tenth of an 
inch or less for most areas from the Champlain Valley westward.

Thursday will feel sharply colder behind the secondary front, with
cold air rushing in on brisk northwest winds. Any lingering upslope
showers will quickly come to an end as drier air spreads over the
region. Clouds will be a little slower to dissipate, but expect
everyone will see sunshine by mid afternoon. Highs will range from
the upper 40s in the Adirondacks to the upper 50s in the southern
Champlain and CT River Valleys.

&&

.SHORT TERM /THURSDAY NIGHT THROUGH FRIDAY/...
As of 419 AM EDT Wednesday...A dramatic change in temperatures is
expected Thursday night in the wake of a departing cold front.
During this time, a much cooler and drier airmass will advect into
the North Country from the northwest as high pressure becomes
established across the region. With that said, overnight low
temperatures are expected in the 20s to low 30s. High pressure will
remain situated over the North Country on Friday resulting in clear
skies and high temperatures in the low 50s.

&&

.LONG TERM /FRIDAY NIGHT THROUGH TUESDAY/...
As of 419 AM EDT Wednesday...Dry weather continues for the weekend as
high pressure slowly begins to shift eastward. A slight warming
trend will take place as the flow aloft becomes southwesterly. High
temperatures will be in the mid to upper 50s on Saturday and in the
upper 50s to low 60s on Sunday. The next low pressure system
approaches early next week, but there remains significant
differences among global deterministic guidance regarding the onset
time of precipitation. At this time, the best chances for rain look
to be Monday night through Tuesday.

&&

.AVIATION /14Z WEDNESDAY THROUGH SUNDAY/...
Through 12Z Thursday...Currently a mix of MVFR/VFR across the 
region, but with maritime moisture streaming into the area, 
expect ceilings to gradually lower to MVFR from southeast to 
northwest at all terminals by 18z. These ceilings will persist 
through much of the rest of the TAF period, with some 
improvement late as a frontal boundary crosses the region. 
Scattered showers will develop through the period as well, 
mainly at the VT terminals this morning, and the NY terminals 
this afternoon, and briefly reduced visibility to 4-6SM will be 
possible in heavier precipitation. Winds generally S/SW around 5
kt through 14z, then increasing to 5-10 kt during the day. 
These will transition to W and eventually NW as the front moves 
through late Wednesday evening. Gusts up to 25 kt possible
behind the front. 

Outlook...

Thursday: Mainly VFR, with local MVFR possible. NO SIG WX.
Thursday Night: VFR. NO SIG WX.
Friday: VFR. NO SIG WX.
Friday Night: VFR. NO SIG WX.
Saturday: VFR. NO SIG WX.
Saturday Night: VFR. NO SIG WX.
Sunday: VFR. NO SIG WX.

&&

.CLIMATE...
Record warm minimum temperatures were set yesterday, October 
25th, at BTV and MPV (see RERBTV for details). Additional 
temperature records may be set as well; the record high for MSS 
for today is 74, and we currently have 76 in the forecast. As 
far as warm low temperatures for today, that will depend upon 
the timing of a cold frontal passage overnight tonight and how 
quickly temperatures fall before midnight. At this time, BTV
and PBG both look to have a chance to break their records, which
are 58 and 53, respectively.

&&

.BTV WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
VT...None.
NY...None.

&&

$$
SYNOPSIS...Hastings
NEAR TERM...Hastings/Kutikoff
SHORT TERM...Hammond
LONG TERM...Hammond
AVIATION...Hastings
CLIMATE...WFO BTV
