423 
FXUS61 KBTV 261812
AFDBTV

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Burlington VT
212 PM EDT Wed Oct 26 2022

.SYNOPSIS...
Mild and humid conditions will persist until Thursday morning when a 
cold front will push eastward across the North Country. Scattered 
showers are expected today and tonight, then sharply drier 
conditions arrive on Thursday behind the cold front. Broad high 
pressure will keep the drier and cooler conditions around through 
the weekend.

&&

.NEAR TERM /THROUGH THURSDAY/...
As of 211 PM EDT Wednesday...Main story today has been the 
sharp gradient between clouds over eastern Vermont and the 
sunshine to the west. As a result, temperatures have achieved 
their potential where skies cleared during the midday hours. 
Daily record highs for long-standing climate sites of Massena, 
NY, and Burlington, VT, have been broken with temperatures 
reaching into the upper 70s this afternoon associated with steep
low (0-3 kilometer) lapse rates due to the strong surface 
heating. As expected this morning, model guidance had correctly 
shifted rain chances only into eastern Vermont with low chances 
of rain elsewhere. Moving through the evening, still looks like 
showers will blossom over northern New York ahead of the 
incoming upper level trough entering the eastern Great Lakes and
gradually shift eastward. No changes needed at this time except
to adjust sky cover and temperatures based on the latest 
observations.

Previous discussion...Another mild and showery day expected
today as low pressure slowly meanders northward off the East Coast.
We're already seeing maritime moisture wrap around this low and up
into our area early this morning, as evidenced by light showers and
areas of drizzle and fog from the central Greens south and 
eastward. More robust shower activity can be seen lifting up 
into southern New England, and expect this to spread into our 
region from north to south through the morning hours. Showers 
should become fairly widespread, particularly across 
southern/central VT, as the low eventually skirts by Cape Cod 
and then starts to push eastward toward Nova Scotia. It should 
be noted that while the best moisture will remain shunted to our
east, still expect PWATs to approach 1.50 inches which is 
pretty respectable for late October. THerefore wouldn't be 
surprised for some showers to produce some briefly heavy 
rainfall rates this morning into the early afternoon. Meanwhile,
another low pressure system will shift from IN/IL and push 
northeast across the the Great Lakes and into Ontario, remaining
west of the St Lawrence Valley, dragging its attendant cold 
frontal boundaries in its wake. Expect much of northern NY will 
stay relatively dry today as they'll remain between these two 
low pressure systems, but as the first cold front approaches the
St Lawrence Valley late today into this evening, showers will 
shift eastward out of Ontario and across the St Lawrence. With 
continuing south/southeast flow, today will once again be mild, 
especially along the north slopes of the Adirondacks and into 
the St Lawrence Valley, as well as portions of the northern 
Champlain Valley. Downsloping winds and more sunshine in these 
areas will allow highs to warm into the lower to mid 70s, which 
is near record for some locations (see Climate section below for
additional details). Meanwhile, more clouds will keep 
temperatures a little cooler but still above normal; highs away 
from the aforementioned zones will be in the mid 60s to around 
70, with areas east of the central/southern Greens remaining 
coolest as clouds and showers will be most persistent there.

Showers will wind down over VT this evening as the coastal low pulls
away to the east, but showers will continue to spread eastward from
the St Lawrence Valley this evening/overnight as the inland low
moves eastward north of the international border. The frontal
boundary will cross the region this evening, turning winds to the
west/southwest. A secondary cold front will follow late tonight into
early Thursday, with gusty northwest winds expected thereafter.
THerefore, widespread showers across NY this evening will become
more focused on the western upslope sides of the Adirondacks and
northern Greens before winding down early Thursday. Rainfall
totals will be fairly variable for this event, ranging from a 
quarter to half an inch in eastern/central VT, to a tenth of an 
inch or less for most areas from the Champlain Valley westward.

Thursday will feel sharply colder behind the secondary front, with
cold air rushing in on brisk northwest winds. Any lingering upslope
showers will quickly come to an end as drier air spreads over the
region. Clouds will be a little slower to dissipate, but expect
everyone will see sunshine by mid afternoon. Highs will range from
the upper 40s in the Adirondacks to the upper 50s in the southern
Champlain and CT River Valleys.

&&

.SHORT TERM /THURSDAY NIGHT THROUGH FRIDAY/...
As of 419 AM EDT Wednesday...A dramatic change in temperatures is
expected Thursday night in the wake of a departing cold front.
During this time, a much cooler and drier airmass will advect into
the North Country from the northwest as high pressure becomes
established across the region. With that said, overnight low
temperatures are expected in the 20s to low 30s. High pressure will
remain situated over the North Country on Friday resulting in clear
skies and high temperatures in the low 50s.

&&

.LONG TERM /FRIDAY NIGHT THROUGH TUESDAY/...
As of 419 AM EDT Wednesday...Dry weather continues for the weekend as
high pressure slowly begins to shift eastward. A slight warming
trend will take place as the flow aloft becomes southwesterly. High
temperatures will be in the mid to upper 50s on Saturday and in the
upper 50s to low 60s on Sunday. The next low pressure system
approaches early next week, but there remains significant
differences among global deterministic guidance regarding the onset
time of precipitation. At this time, the best chances for rain look
to be Monday night through Tuesday.

&&

.AVIATION /18Z WEDNESDAY THROUGH MONDAY/...
Through 12Z Thursday...We continue to see mainly VFR conditions
across the airspace, with only MPV currently seeing MVFR 
ceilings. Chances of lowering ceilings elsewhere increases over 
the next six hours to ten hours as moisture and scattered
showers arrive from the southwest ahead of a frontal boundary 
coincident with stronger wind fields. Gusty west winds will 
develop after 06Z behind a prefrontal trough, then shifting 
northwesterly towards 12Z associated with the cold front which 
will help produce gusty winds at all TAF sites in the 20 to 25 
knots. Prior to 06Z, winds will continue mainly 6 to 12 knots
out of the south or southeast. Aside from SLK where prevailing 
showers are offered towards 00Z, have just a period of VCSH 
given coverage of showers is expected to be scattered tonight. 

Outlook...

Thursday Night: VFR. NO SIG WX.
Friday: VFR. NO SIG WX.
Friday Night: VFR. NO SIG WX.
Saturday: VFR. NO SIG WX.
Saturday Night: VFR. NO SIG WX.
Sunday: VFR. NO SIG WX.
Sunday Night: VFR. NO SIG WX.
Monday: Mainly MVFR, with local VFR possible. Chance SHRA.

&&

.CLIMATE...
Record warm minimum temperatures were set yesterday, October 
25th, at BTV and MPV (see RERBTV for details). Additional 
temperature records may be set as well; the record high for MSS 
for today is 74, and we currently have 76 in the forecast. As 
far as warm low temperatures for today, that will depend upon 
the timing of a cold frontal passage overnight tonight and how 
quickly temperatures fall before midnight. At this time, BTV
and PBG both look to have a chance to break their records, which
are 58 and 53, respectively.

&&

.BTV WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
VT...None.
NY...None.

&&

$$
SYNOPSIS...Hastings
NEAR TERM...Hastings/Kutikoff
SHORT TERM...Hammond
LONG TERM...Hammond
AVIATION...Hastings/Kutikoff
CLIMATE...WFO BTV
