747 
FXUS65 KGGW 260943
AFDGGW

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Glasgow MT
343 AM MDT Wed Oct 26 2022

.DISCUSSION...

MORNING DISCUSSION:
Synoptic Setup: A weak trough sets over southern Idaho and is
travelling southeast. North of it, a weak ridge has has developed
over the Gulf of Alaska and coupled to it in a rapidly developing
split flow. Farther upstream another trough/ridge couplet sets
over the Aleutian Islands with yet another large trough behind it.
Coldest air of the northern hemisphere currently lies over 
Victoria Island in Nunavut. 

Today through Friday night: With the Idaho trough moving further 
south, northeast MT will come into calm and dry conditions with 
partly cloudy skies through these periods. On Thursday the ridge 
will spill over the frontrange of Alberta and drop south dragging 
a chinook along with it. This will slowly warm conditions through
Friday and bring variable high to mid clouds across the area with
the chinook arch. 

Saturday throrugh SUnday night: Seconda ridge trough couplet
mentioned above will move across the region. The trough part
appears to drag a weak cold front with a limited glancing blow
across the far northeast Saturday night before being scooped out
of the area by the second chinook ridge Sunday and Sunday night.
conditions should continue to dry and warm through here. 

Monday onward: The large trough behind both couplets finally
begins to move in. Ensembles show it gathering a large amount of 
cool pacific air over the Gulf of Alaska before reaching the
BC/PACNW shore Monday. At which point ensemble output becomes bi-
modal. 

Half of the ensembles appear to progressively drag the trough 
across the International Border, over the front range, and pull in
Arctic airmass behind it for a rather cold but dry passage across
Montana with warming northwest flow by Wednesday. 

The other half dive the trough south to off the coast of 
California where it scoops up a large helping of pacific moisture 
and jets it up in southwest flow over northeast Montana. This mode
would be warmer initially, but much more wet in its cold frontal
passage and a possible chinook following on it heels by Friday.

This bi-modal set of data has lowered confidence until the models
make a choice which will probably be based off conditions just
over the coast of BC where there is currently limited data. GAH



&&

.AVIATION...
LAST UPDATED: 0730Z

FLIGHT CAT RANGE: VFR. 

DISCUSSION: Mainly Partly cloud with mid level clouds through the
cycle. Some low stratus with vis reductions exist to the 
northeast of KSDY and KOLF on satellite and obs but should exit 
Montana at 17Z and not impact these terminals.

WINDS: Light and variable this morning. Becoming southeast at 5 
to 10 kts this afternoon. Then veering to the southwest after 
sundown through overnight. 

GAH


&&

.GLASGOW WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...NONE.

&&

$$

weather.gov/glasgow
