364 
FXUS63 KEAX 262002
AFDEAX

AREA FORECAST DISCUSSION
National Weather Service Kansas City/Pleasant Hill MO
302 PM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

.Discussion...
Issued at 302 PM CDT WED OCT 26 2022

Key Messages: 

- Near normal conditions expected through the weekend.

- Mainly dry through the forecast, with some small rain chances. 

Water vapor imagery shows zonal flow over the middle of the country 
with a strong trough moving southeast through the Intermountain 
West. Strong upper-level flow along the base of the trough and 
extending eastward over the central and eastern Plains, coupled with 
a weaker shortwave trough over southern CO/northern NM, are helping 
to spread high level clouds over the region. At the surface, high 
pressure was moving through the area centered roughly from IA 
through southwestern MO. That high pressure will move to our east 
overnight and into Thursday. This will allow a tightening of the 
pressure gradient associated with a strengthening lee trough ahead
of the next upper-level shortwave. So winds will become 
southeasterly overnight and increase tomorrow as the pressure 
gradient tightens. Winds won't be nearly as strong as over the 
weekend but it will be breezy with 10-20 mph winds and some
stronger gusts likely.

There may be some vorticity peel away from the main upper shortwave 
Thursday evening/overnight as that main shortwave becomes detached 
from the upper-level flow. This may lead to some showers in 
northwestern MO/northeastern KS but overall chances are low and the 
vast majority of the area will stay dry. As the main shortwave gets 
cutoff from the upper flow, it will dig into the Southern Plains and 
close off for at least a few days. Models show that closed low 
lifting northeastward late in the weekend with small chances for 
rain in our southeastern zones as a result. Like the previously 
mentioned chance, probabilities are low and there will be a fair 
amount of low-level dry air to overcome. So again with this chance, 
most areas will stay dry. 

For early to mid next week, warm advection will ramp up ahead of  
another trough moving into the West. This will help get 
temperatures into the 70s Tuesday and Wednesday. Overall, we 
should be about 10- 15 degrees above normal late in the forecast.


&&

.Aviation...(For the 18Z TAFS through 18Z Thursday Afternoon)
Issued at 302 PM CDT WED OCT 26 2022

VFR conditions expected through the forecast with increasing 
coverage of high level clouds. Light winds will become southeasterly 
between 5 and 10 kts later this afternoon/this evening. 

&&

.EAX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
KS...NONE.
MO...NONE.
&&

$$

Discussion...CDB
Aviation...CDB
