148 
FXUS63 KEAX 260534
AFDEAX

AREA FORECAST DISCUSSION
National Weather Service Kansas City/Pleasant Hill MO
1234 AM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

.Discussion...
Issued at 300 PM CDT TUE OCT 25 2022

Key Messages: 

- Rain moves east of the area this evening/overnight.

- Generally quiet weather expected through the end of the week.

Water vapor imagery shows a strong shortwave trough moving across
southern MO currently. The northern extent of the rain is mainly 
just in the southeastern quadrant of our forecast area, roughly 
south of I-70 and east of I-49. As that shortwave trough continues
to track to the east-northeast and away from the area, the 
rainfall will shift into central and eastern MO with it. The cloud
area associated with the shortwave will also shift east with time
this evening and overnight with clear skies prevailing across the
area by later tonight. High pressure will settle over the region 
Wednesday with near normal temperatures in the low to mid 60s 
expected. 

The next upper-level short wave will begin to move out of the Four-
Corners area and into the Southern Plains Thursday. Models show that 
wave getting cutoff from the upper-level flow and closing off to our 
south, likely across the TX/OK/LA/AR area. This will likely lead 
to most, if not all, areas staying dry as that system stays well 
to our south and any moisture associated with upper low stays 
with it. If any precipitation does affect the area associated with
this wave, it would be confined to our far western and southern 
zones. But at this time, I just can't see more than just a slight 
chance mention. 

With the forecast area nestled between the sub-tropical jet and 
the polar jet for much of the forecast, generally quiet weather is
expected. This will also result in temperatures being close to or
slightly above normal as there is pretty much just neutral 
temperature/moisture advection. Early next week, as another 
stronger trough begins to move over the western CONUS and induces 
southerly flow ahead of it, temperatures should warm into the 70s,
which by that time would be about 8-10 degrees above normal.

&&

.Aviation...(For the 06Z TAFS through 06Z Wednesday Night)
Issued at 1233 AM CDT WED OCT 26 2022

VFR conditions with light and variable winds.

&&

.EAX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
KS...NONE.
MO...NONE.
&&

$$

Discussion...CDB
Aviation...BT
