485 
FXUS63 KEAX 260719
AFDEAX

AREA FORECAST DISCUSSION
National Weather Service Kansas City/Pleasant Hill MO
219 AM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

.Discussion...
Issued at 216 AM CDT WED OCT 26 2022

Key Points:

* Seasonal temperatures expected through the weekend with mainly dry 
  conditions expected. 

* Temperatures and winds increase Tuesday into Wednesday next week, 
  potentially leading to elevated fire weather concerns. 
  

Detailed discussion... 

Quiet weather day across the center of the country as surface high 
pressure shifts from the western plains towards the western Great 
Lakes/Tennessee Valley.  As surface ridge shifts east, expect light 
easterly winds to develop.  With light winds, mixing is expected to 
be more limited to near 900 mb.  

Upper level cloud cover will be on the increase this afternoon into 
tonight as upper level low moves from the Pacific NW into the 
Central Plains.  Shower potential will largely be held to the west 
of eastern Kansas/Missouri closer to the mid level disturbance, 
and dry air in the near surface layer will eat away at 
precipitation potential. Because of that, have removed pops for 
Thursday. 

This upper level low is expected to work into Texas where it becomes 
cut off from the upper level jet.  It is expected to remain across 
Texas through Friday night, then lift back to the northeast.  While 
the wave is expected to pass just to the east of the forecast area, 
wrap around precipitation looks to be limited with much of the 
moisture feeding convection on the front side of the low.  

With limited amounts of moisture in the forecast, will need to keep 
an eye on fire weather conditions Tuesday into Wednesday as warm and 
windy conditions set up across the central US.


&&

.Aviation...(For the 06Z TAFS through 06Z Wednesday Night)
Issued at 1233 AM CDT WED OCT 26 2022

VFR conditions with light and variable winds.


&&

.EAX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
KS...NONE.
MO...NONE.
&&

$$

Discussion...BT
Aviation...BT
