799 
FXUS65 KREV 261810
AFDREV

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Reno NV
1110 AM PDT Wed Oct 26 2022


.SYNOPSIS...
Temperatures drop today with a weak system sweeping just east of 
the Basin and Range, but near average temperatures return for the 
rest of the week. Breezy northerly winds will feel chilly this 
afternoon and evening. A mild and dry forecast is in store for the
weekend, but the trend is leaning towards another system early 
next week. 

&&

.DISCUSSION...
The trough dropping through just east of the Basin and Range will 
enhance northerly flow across the region today and bring a drop in 
the temperatures for tonight and early tomorrow. Precipitation is 
unlikely as the best forcing with the trough is well east of the 
Sierra and western Nevada. Plan on another round of widespread 
freezes tonight for much of the region as the temperatures drop 
again. 

The forecast for the rest of the week and into the weekend is 
looking pretty quiet with a mix of a weak ridge and zonal flow 
across northern NV and CA. Plan on light easterly winds for Thursday 
into Friday, but then little to no breezes by Saturday and Sunday. 
Along with the lack of winds there will be near zero chances for 
precipitation for the Nevada Day weekend and likely into Halloween 
as well!

There may be a shift in the quieter pattern by Tuesday into 
Wednesday as ensemble clusters highlight a trough dropping into the 
Pacific Northwest. The majority of the ensembles are on board with 
this trough dipping into the Sierra and western Nevada, although 
there are some variances in the exact depth and location. Ensembles 
meteograms are also trending towards the potential rain/snow 
chances, especially by Wednesday into the rest of next week. The EC 
ensembles have more solutions indicating a wetter trend, but the GFS 
also has plenty of solutions that are higher than 0.10" for the Reno 
area. Bottom line: plan on colder conditions from next Tuesday 
onward and the potential for some precipitation to return to the 
region. 
-Edan 

&&

.AVIATION...
A few light showers cannot be ruled out this afternoon near the
Oregon border. Otherwise, prevailing VFR conditions are expected
at all TAF terminals through the period with predominately 
mid/high cloud cover decreasing in coverage this evening. North to
northwest winds with gusts 15-20kt this afternoon will decrease by
02-03 UTC, becoming light and variable for the overnight hours. 

-Dustin


&&

.REV Watches/Warnings/Advisories...
NV...None.
CA...None.

&&

$$
