756 
FXUS65 KREV 260850
AFDREV

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Reno NV
150 AM PDT Wed Oct 26 2022

.SYNOPSIS...

Temperatures bottom out today, then rebound to near normal for the 
remainder of the week. Enhanced northerly winds will continue 
through this afternoon. Dry and mild conditions return through the 
weekend, ahead of another system early next week.

&&

.DISCUSSION...

A trough will continue digging into the Intermountain West today. 
While this system will be too far east to produce any measurable 
precipitation across our region, we will see slightly cooler 
temperatures and enhanced afternoon winds today as cool northerly 
flow prevails. Highs will top out in the mid-to-upper 50s in lower 
valleys of western NV, and low 50s for Sierra valleys. We will also 
see another widespread freeze overnight into Thursday morning, with 
a 90+% chance for low temperatures to drop below 32 degrees for a 
majority of our region.  

A weak ridge will promote dry and mild conditions through the end of 
the work week, with temperatures gradually warming back to seasonal 
averages by Friday. Generally zonal flow will return this weekend 
and prevail through Monday, keeping temperatures near-to-slightly 
above average through this period. Ensemble and blended guidance 
continues to trend drier through this weekend, with any 
precipitation chances below 10% through Sunday. 

Looking ahead, ensemble guidance is showing some signals for a 
potentially more impactful system digging into the Great Basin 
during the first half of the week. There are some discrepancies 
between models at this point in terms of strength and exact track of 
this system. What we do know at this time is there will be another 
cooldown early next week, but uncertain on how cool it will get. 
Some other factors in the cards with this system include gusty winds 
and increased chances for precipitation through mid-week, but these 
are lower confidence at this time.  

-Whitlam

&&

.AVIATION...

* W-NW FL100 winds are sustained around 25-40 kts this morning,
  strongest north of US-50, as a weak frontal boundary shifts
  through the region. Winds will shift out of the NNW by mid-
  afternoon and weaken into the evening. This wind direction is
  not as favorable for mountain wave development, however, some
  bumps and wind shear are possible through the morning hours due
  to the cold front.

* At the surface, most wind gusts will remain under 15-20 kts today, 
  except for areas near the Oregon border which could see gusts in 
  the 20-30 kt range. Lighter winds to follow for Wednesday and 
  Thursday.

* Conditions today will remain VFR, but localized areas of terrain 
  obscuration are possible north of I-80 due to mid level clouds.

* The weekend has trended drier with our next potential storm
  system the early to middle part of next week.

-Dawn

&&

.REV Watches/Warnings/Advisories...
NV...None.
CA...None.
&&

$$
