708 
FXUS61 KLWX 261851
AFDLWX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Baltimore MD/Washington DC
251 PM EDT Wed Oct 26 2022

.SYNOPSIS...
A cold front will progress through the area later this afternoon
into tonight. An area of high pressure will build to our north
tomorrow, and remain in control through the weekend. An area of
low pressure will approach the area early next week.

&&

.NEAR TERM /THROUGH TONIGHT/...
Some breaks in the cloud cover are finally starting to develop
this afternoon, especially to the west of the Blue Ridge.
Additional breaks in the clouds will continue to develop through
the remainder of the afternoon. The shortwave which led to the
development of showers across the area earlier this morning into
early afternoon has lifted toward Lake Erie, with the majority
of the large scale forcing for ascent now displaced away from 
the area. As a result, conditions are expected to remain dry for
the most part this afternoon. The exception may be immediately
along the cold front as it presses across the forecast area from
west to east. If a shower were to occur along the front, it 
would only last for 15-30 minutes in any one given location. The
front is currently located across far western MD and the WV 
Panhandle, and will reach the Bay by this evening.

Drier and slightly cooler air will filter into the area in
northwesterly flow overnight. Lows tonight will bottom out in 
the 40s for most, with lower 50s in the urban centers and upper 
30s in the mountains.

&&

.SHORT TERM /THURSDAY THROUGH FRIDAY NIGHT/...
Heights will rise aloft tomorrow as high pressure builds at the
surface over the Great Lakes. This combination will lead to dry
conditions locally, with sunny skies expected as drier air
filters into the region. Winds will be out of the north, and
could gust to around 15-25 mph at times. High temperatures
tomorrow will be in the 60s for most, with upper 40s to lower
50s in the mountains.

As we move into Friday, high pressure will continue to
strengthen (reaching the upper 1030s hPa) as it becomes centered
to our north over Upstate NY. This will result in another day of
dry weather conditions. However, skies will begin to cloud up as
low-level winds just off the surface start to turn easterly and
advect moisture in off of the Atlantic. High temperatures are
forecast to be in the 50s and lower 60s for most.

&&

.LONG TERM /SATURDAY THROUGH WEDNESDAY/...
Strong 1034mb high pressure will sit anchored over southern New 
England to start the forecast period. This will yield dry conditions 
along with light northeasterly flow which will keep highs in the 
upper 50s and low 60s Saturday afternoon. The high looks to scoot 
east and off the coast by Sunday allowing our next area of low 
pressure over the Deep South to lift north into the region. This 
system will bring several rounds of showers to the region from late 
Sunday afternoon into the first of Tuesday. Precipitation will push 
in from the south with a resultant warm frontal boundary overrunning 
the shallow cool air wedge left in place from our departing high 
Sunday afternoon into Sunday night. As the upper trough sharpens 
rain chances look to become more widespread Monday into Monday 
afternoon. Showers will even linger into Tuesday as low pressure 
occludes over the Mid-Atlantic and the resultant upper level low is 
absorbed in the northern jetstream/low pressure moving up the coast. 
High pressure looks to return with dry and mild conditions heading 
into midweek.

Temperature wise expect values at or slightly below average Sunday 
into Monday as east to northeasterly flow persists and 
clouds/precipitation overspread the region. Highs start to turn 
warmer as winds switch to the south and southeast Tuesday and toward 
the westerly direction Wednesday afternoon as high pressure settles 
in.

&&

.AVIATION /18Z WEDNESDAY THROUGH MONDAY/...
Ceilings are bouncing back and forth between MVFR and VFR at
many of the terminals this afternoon, and may continue to do so
until a cold front moves through the area this evening. A brief
shower may accompany the frontal passage. Behind the front,
winds will turn northwesterly tonight, northerly tomorrow, and
then northeasterly on Friday. Winds may gust to around 15-25
knots tomorrow afternoon. VFR conditions are expected tomorrow,
with borderline MVFR/VFR ceilings during the day on Friday.

VFR flight conditions are expected to prevail Saturday and into the 
first half of Sunday with high pressure wedged across the region. 
Northeast winds around 5-10 knots with gusts upwards of 15 knots are 
possible at BWI, MTN, and DCA during this timeframe.

Sub-VFR conditions look to return late Sunday afternoon as a 
warm front lifts into the region. Showers will likely accompany 
this boundary with lowered CIGS and perhaps VSBY restrictions 
starting Sunday night.

&&

.MARINE...
Sub-SCA southerly winds are expected through the remainder of
the afternoon. A cold front will cross over the waters this
evening, with winds turning northwest behind the front this
evening, northerly tomorrow, and then northeasterly on Friday.
SCAs are in effect tonight into tomorrow, and may may need to be
extended through tomorrow night and into Friday.

Broad high pressure over southern New England will keep winds 
elevated Saturday especially in areas near and south of Tidal 
Potomac. Northeasterly gusts of 10-15 kts will remain possible in 
these locations with winds switching back toward the southwest late 
Sunday as a warm front lifts north through the region. 

&&

.TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
Southerly flow has allowed anomalies to creep up today ahead of
a cold front which will pass through the waters tonight. 
Annapolis may approach minor flood stage this evening, but is 
expected to remain below for now. Winds will turn northwesterly 
tonight and then northerly tomorrow, which should act to drive 
down anomalies and reduce the threat for coastal flooding.

&&

.LWX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
DC...None.
MD...None.
VA...None.
WV...None.
MARINE...Small Craft Advisory from 11 PM this evening to 11 PM EDT 
     Thursday for ANZ530>534-537>543.
     Small Craft Advisory from 11 PM this evening to 6 PM EDT 
     Thursday for ANZ535-536.

&&

$$
SYNOPSIS...KJP
NEAR TERM...KJP
SHORT TERM...KJP
LONG TERM...EST
AVIATION...KJP/EST 
MARINE...KJP/EST
TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...KJP
