413 
FXUS61 KLWX 260748
AFDLWX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Baltimore MD/Washington DC
348 AM EDT Wed Oct 26 2022

.SYNOPSIS...
Widespread stratus and patchy dense fog across are ongoing this
morning. A weak cold front cross the area today will produce
afternoon showers. High pressure builds in Thursday, bringing 
dry conditions. Unsettled conditions return Sunday as a cold air
damming setup takes shape, with strong high pressure over the 
northeast.

&&

.NEAR TERM /THROUGH TONIGHT/...
Widespread stratus has developed across much of the area this 
morning, with very light to calm winds allowing patchy dense fog
to develop in a few locations, as well. Over the mountains, the
surface pressure gradient has tightened in response to an 
approaching trough/area of low pressure that is currently over 
the far southern Great Lakes area. Additionally, a very narrow 
plume of moisture streaming over southern/eastern MD is 
producing drizzle to light rainfall. 

It's going to take quite a bit of time for the trapped, shallow
moisture layer just off the surface to mix out today. That means
the dense stratus is going to stick through early afternoon in a
lot of areas, and even then skies are likely to remain mostly
cloudy along/east of I-95 through this evening. 

A cold front is going to sweep through the area this morning and 
afternoon, bringing scattered to numerous showers. The highest 
rain chances are west of the Blue Ridge (50-60pct), and much 
lower toward the Bay/I-95 (20-30pct). Cloudy skies keep temps 
today in the low to mid 60s, with upper 60s to around 70F 
possible west of the Blue Ridge if the skies clear out enough 
this afternoon. 

High pressure starts to build into the area tonight as much
drier air surges in behind the cold front. Skies gradually clear
this evening and overnight, as nighttime lows drop back down to
the 40s for the mountains and 50s elsewhere.

&&

.SHORT TERM /THURSDAY THROUGH FRIDAY NIGHT/...
A strong high pressure centered over SE Canada/Northeast U.S. 
late this week will keep conditions dry across the Mid-Atlantic.
Afternoon temperatures return to seasonal values for late 
October. Sunny conditions Thursday give way to mostly cloudy 
skies on Friday. Colder temperatures return Thursday night, with
sub-freezing temps possible along the Allegheny Front and 40s 
further east. 

&&

.LONG TERM /SATURDAY THROUGH TUESDAY/...
Strong high pressure will be anchored over the northeastern 
CONUS this weekend, yielding slightly below average temperatures
both days with highs in the low 60s. Should generally remain 
dry as well as upper-level ridging is also in place during this 
time. 

Surface low pressure will be developing over the southeastern CONUS 
during this time as well in response to a sharpening upper trough 
dips all the way south into the Gulf of Mexico. As this system lifts 
northward on Sunday night to our west, the associated warm front 
will result in some showers overnight as the warmer air overruns the 
cold air wedge. 

Showers likely continue into the day on Tuesday as well as the upper-
level energy associated with the aforementioned surface low 
combines with a piece of northern jet energy and moves overhead.


&&

.AVIATION /07Z WEDNESDAY THROUGH SUNDAY/...
Widespread stratus and patchy fog this morning is producing 
IFR/LIFR conditions at all terminals. The fog should dissipate 
by mid morning, but the low stratus is going to stick around 
through late afternoon, especially at BWI/MTN. A cold front is 
expected to sweep across the area late this morning to afternoon,
with showers possible (highest chances at MRB). VFR conditions 
return from west to east late this afternoon to evening, with 
skies clearing overnight as winds become northwest around 10-12KT.

VFR conditions expected Thursday, with cloud cover returning on
Friday. VFR conditions are expected Saturday and most of Sunday
as high pressure remains anchored over the northeast CONUS and 
upper level ridging resides overhead. 

Cloud cover increases throughout the day Sunday and especially 
into Sunday night ahead of a lifting warm front. Sub-VFR 
conditions may return overnight Sunday at times with lowered 
CIGs and perhaps VSBY restrictions in showers. 

&&

.MARINE...
Dense fog has developed over MD's southern Chesapeake Bay this
morning, with visibilities reduced to less than one half of a
mile. Conditions should begin to improve late this morning. A 
cold front will sweep through the waters this afternoon, 
bringing some shower activity. SCA conditions develop behind the
cold front this evening through Thursday evening as northwest 
to north winds increase to 10-15 knots, with gusts up to 
20-25kt. Winds could stay elevated over the middle/southern 
Bay Thursday night and Friday, which would necessitate the 
extension of the current SCA. 

Winds will be elevated on Saturday in northerly channeling over the 
Chesapeake Bay, especially near and south of the mouth of the tidal 
Potomac. A warm front will lift through the region late Sunday, but
winds should remain below SCA criteria. 

&&

.TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
A southerly flow ahead of a cold front today will cause elevated 
water levels through tonight. Minor flooding is possible around high 
tide, especially this evening for Annapolis. Confidence has increase 
as winds may turn out of the north just in time this evening to
keep anomalies down, but will continue to monitor throughout 
the day. 

&&

.LWX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
DC...None.
MD...None.
VA...None.
WV...None.
MARINE...Small Craft Advisory from 11 PM this evening to 11 PM EDT 
     Thursday for ANZ530>534-537>543.
     Small Craft Advisory from 11 PM this evening to 6 PM EDT 
     Thursday for ANZ535-536.

&&

$$
SYNOPSIS...KRR
NEAR TERM...KRR
SHORT TERM...KRR
LONG TERM...CJL
AVIATION...CJL/KRR
MARINE...CJL/KRR
TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...CJL
