066 
FXUS61 KLWX 260129
AFDLWX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Baltimore MD/Washington DC
929 PM EDT Tue Oct 25 2022

.SYNOPSIS...
A weak area of high pressure is expected to build in through
tonight as a weak low pressure system slides further to the
northeast. Cold front approaches from the west on Wednesday,
bringing a few showers. High pressure builds in late in the
week. Unsettled conditions return for the weekend as a cold air
damming setup takes shape with strong high pressure over the 
northeast.

&&

.NEAR TERM /UNTIL 8 AM WEDNESDAY MORNING/...
The latest surface analysis places a weak area of high pressure
along the Mid-Atlantic coastline. Gradients remain somewhat weak
with light easterly flow continuing to advect low-level moisture
inland. The depth of moisture is very shallow as noted by the
00Z IAD sounding with most of the saturation occurring in the
surface-925 mb layer. It is rather bone dry above with the mid-
level RH running at 7 percent. Based on this profile, it is not
surprising to see a shield of low stratus encompassing many
locations along and east of U.S. 15. Some of this may further
lower into an area of patchy fog, becoming locally dense. The
highest probability for the dense fog would be north and east of
the Potomac River late tonight and into the subsequent morning.

Farther west, while a few showers cannot be ruled out across the
Alleghenies and Potomac Highlands, these should largely be
isolated and infrequent in nature. Tonight's low temperatures
range from the upper 40s to 50s across the area.

&&

.SHORT TERM /8 AM WEDNESDAY MORNING THROUGH THURSDAY NIGHT/...
During the day on Wednesday. a cold front is expected to cross the 
region. Precipitation chances will increase throughout the day, 
especially across the western areas. Forcing continues to be better 
situated across areas further north. Temperatures will be cooler 
across the areas most likely to be impacted by the light to moderate 
rain. High temperatures are expected closer to the waters where 
skies may allow for a bit more sunshine than out west. Overnight 
lows will drop back down into the 40s for the mountains and 50s 
elsewhere Wednesday night. A dominant high pressure will bring dry 
conditions for most areas with temperatures coming back to normal 
for late October. By Thursday night, temperatures return colder with 
some sub-freezing temps possible along the Allegheny Front with 40s 
further east.

&&

.LONG TERM /FRIDAY THROUGH TUESDAY/...
Dry conditions look to round out the workweek as broad 1032-1034 mb 
high pressure slides east into New England leaving mid-level ridging 
wedged over our region. The 12z GFS/GEM continue to agree with there 
00z ECMWF/GEM/GFS counterparts in keeping the first half of the 
weekend dry. The forecast starts to turn wetter beyond this point as 
upper level troughing builds back into the region. Current guidance 
continues to suggests a cutoff low over the southeastern U.S being 
absorbed into the trough across the Ohio/Tennessee river valleys 
late Saturday night into Sunday. As the system, pushes east it looks 
to occlude over the central Appalachians with a parent low off the 
coast late Sunday into Monday. This will lead to on and off shower 
chances through at least midweek with persistent troughing across 
much of the eastern CONUS. With that said, the weekend will not be 
washout with Saturday being the better of two days. Highest rain 
chances remain toward late Sunday into Monday with a decrease in 
coverage Tuesday as high pressure builds back into the region.

Temperatures will remain at or slightly above average through the 
period. Expect mid to upper 50s over the mountains with mid to upper 
60s further east Friday and Saturday due in part to northeasterly 
flow. These numbers will trend down a few degrees Sunday through 
Tuesday with extra cloud cover and showers across the region. 
Overnight lows will become increasingly mild as well, going from low 
to mid 40s Friday night to low to mid 50s for Sunday and Monday 
nights.

&&

.AVIATION /01Z WEDNESDAY THROUGH SUNDAY/...
Some stratus and fog (locally dense at times) will likely form 
late tonight and into Wednesday morning. This keeps the DC and
Baltimore terminals down to IFR, while at times lowering to LIFR
where dense fog forms. Most notably, the eastern terminals have
the best opportunity for dense fog through Wednesday morning. 
Cold front approaches Wednesday, bringing low clouds and some 
light precipitation across mainly the western terminals. Patchy 
fog will be possible late Wednesday into Thursday morning. VFR 
conditions expected for Thursday.

VFR flight conditions are expected to prevail Friday and Saturday 
with high pressure wedged across the region. Northeast winds around 
10-15 knots with gusts upwards of 20 knots are possible at BWI, MTN, 
and DCA during this timeframe. 

Sub-VFR conditions look to return Sunday into Monday starting at CHO 
Sunday afternoon before spreading north and east toward IAD, MRB, 
DCA, BWI, and MTN Sunday night into Monday afternoon. Shower chances 
will be on and off through at least Tuesday with VFR conditions 
returning midweek.

&&

.MARINE...
While winds are expected through tonight. A cold front 
approaches Wednesday, likely bring SCA conditions ahead and just
behind the frontal passage. Increased pressure gradient will 
likely allow winds to continue to remain gusty at times 
Thursday.

Broad high pressure over New England will lead to SCA 
conditions across the middle/southern portion of the Chesapeake 
Bay Friday into Saturday. Northeasterly winds will likely gusts 
upwards of 15-20 knots before switching back toward more of a 
west and southwest direction Sunday into Tuesday as low 
pressure/upper level troughing pass through. Gusts will be less 
than 15 knots through this period.

&&

.TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
A southerly flow ahead of a cold front will cause elevated water 
levels Wednesday into Wednesday night. Minor flooding is possible 
around high tide, especially later Wednesday into Wednesday evening 
for the more sensitive tidal sites such as Annapolis and Point 
Lookout.

&&

.LWX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
DC...None.
MD...None.
VA...None.
WV...None.
MARINE...None.

&&

$$
SYNOPSIS...ADM/CAS
NEAR TERM...BRO/ADM
SHORT TERM...ADM
LONG TERM...DHOF
AVIATION...BRO/DHOF/ADM
MARINE...BRO/DHOF/ADM
TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...LWX
