475 
FXUS61 KLWX 261444
AFDLWX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Baltimore MD/Washington DC
1044 AM EDT Wed Oct 26 2022

.SYNOPSIS...
A weak cold front crossing the area today will produce 
afternoon showers. High pressure builds in Thursday, bringing 
dry conditions. Unsettled conditions return Sunday as a cold air
damming setup takes shape, with strong high pressure over the 
northeast.

&&

.NEAR TERM /THROUGH TONIGHT/...
Mid morning update: Guidance has struggled with an area of
showers making their way across the forecast area this morning.
These showers are associated with a ribbon of ascent ahead of a
shortwave currently lifting northeastward across Ohio. POPs have
been raised significantly across much of the forecast area to
account for these showers. Any given location should see a 2-3
hour window during which these showers move through. These 
showers are currently located across central portions of the 
forecast area, and will lift northeastward over the next few 
hours. The I-95 corridor should see the greatest chance for 
showers between roughly 11 AM and 2 PM. By mid-afternoon these 
showers will lift northeast out of the forecast area, and a 
cold front will start to progress from west to east across the 
forecast area. CAMs hint that a narrow line of showers may 
develop immediately along the cold front and move west to east 
across the forecast area late this afternoon into this evening. 
Northern portions of the forecast area would stand the greatest 
chance of seeing this brief chance for a shower. Previous 
discussion follows...

Widespread stratus has developed across much of the area this 
morning, with very light to calm winds allowing patchy dense fog
to develop in a few locations, as well. Over the mountains, the
surface pressure gradient has tightened in response to an 
approaching trough/area of low pressure that is currently over 
the far southern Great Lakes area. Additionally, a very narrow 
plume of moisture streaming over southern/eastern MD is 
producing drizzle to light rainfall.


It's going to take quite a bit of time for the trapped, shallow
moisture layer just off the surface to mix out today. That means
the dense stratus is going to stick through early afternoon in a
lot of areas, and even then skies are likely to remain mostly
cloudy along/east of I-95 through this evening. 

A cold front is going to sweep through the area this morning and 
afternoon, bringing scattered to numerous showers. Cloudy skies
keep temps today in the low to mid 60s, with upper 60s to 
around 70F possible west of the Blue Ridge if the skies clear 
out enough this afternoon. 

High pressure starts to build into the area tonight as much
drier air surges in behind the cold front. Skies gradually clear
this evening and overnight, as nighttime lows drop back down to
the 40s for the mountains and 50s elsewhere.

&&

.SHORT TERM /THURSDAY THROUGH FRIDAY NIGHT/...
A strong high pressure centered over SE Canada/Northeast U.S. 
late this week will keep conditions dry across the Mid-Atlantic.
Afternoon temperatures return to seasonal values for late 
October. Sunny conditions Thursday give way to mostly cloudy 
skies on Friday. Colder temperatures return Thursday night, with
sub-freezing temps possible along the Allegheny Front and 40s 
further east.

&&

.LONG TERM /SATURDAY THROUGH TUESDAY/...
Strong high pressure will be anchored over the northeastern 
CONUS this weekend, yielding slightly below average temperatures
both days with highs in the low 60s. Should generally remain 
dry as well as upper-level ridging is also in place during this 
time. 

Surface low pressure will be developing over the southeastern CONUS 
during this time as well in response to a sharpening upper trough 
dips all the way south into the Gulf of Mexico. As this system lifts 
northward on Sunday night to our west, the associated warm front 
will result in some showers overnight as the warmer air overruns the 
cold air wedge. 

Showers likely continue into the day on Tuesday as well as the upper-
level energy associated with the aforementioned surface low 
combines with a piece of northern jet energy and moves overhead.

&&

.AVIATION /15Z WEDNESDAY THROUGH SUNDAY/...
IFR/MVFR/LIFR conditions are occurring at the terminals this
morning in association with low clouds and showers. Conditions
should slowly improve to MVFR through the day. Showers will
traverse the area over the next few hours, with most terminals
experiencing a 2-3 hour window where showers are possible 
during the late morning to early afternoon hours. VFR conditions
return from west to east late this afternoon to evening as a 
weak cold front sweeps across the area, with skies clearing 
overnight as winds become northwest around 10-12KT.

VFR conditions expected Thursday, with cloud cover returning on
Friday. VFR conditions are expected Saturday and most of Sunday
as high pressure remains anchored over the northeast CONUS and 
upper level ridging resides overhead. 

Cloud cover increases throughout the day Sunday and especially 
into Sunday night ahead of a lifting warm front. Sub-VFR 
conditions may return overnight Sunday at times with lowered 
CIGs and perhaps VSBY restrictions in showers.

&&

.MARINE...
A cold front will sweep through the waters this afternoon, 
bringing some shower activity. SCA conditions develop behind the
cold front this evening through Thursday evening as northwest 
to north winds increase to 10-15 knots, with gusts up to 
20-25kt. Winds could stay elevated over the middle/southern Bay 
Thursday night and Friday, which would necessitate the extension
of the current SCA. 

Winds will be elevated on Saturday in northerly channeling over the 
Chesapeake Bay, especially near and south of the mouth of the tidal 
Potomac. A warm front will lift through the region late Sunday, but
winds should remain below SCA criteria.

&&

.TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
A southerly flow ahead of a cold front today will cause elevated 
water levels through tonight. Minor flooding is possible around high 
tide, especially this evening for Annapolis. Confidence has increase 
as winds may turn out of the north just in time this evening to
keep anomalies down, but will continue to monitor throughout 
the day.

&&

.LWX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
DC...None.
MD...None.
VA...None.
WV...None.
MARINE...Small Craft Advisory from 11 PM this evening to 11 PM EDT 
     Thursday for ANZ530>534-537>543.
     Small Craft Advisory from 11 PM this evening to 6 PM EDT 
     Thursday for ANZ535-536.

&&

$$
SYNOPSIS...KRR
NEAR TERM...KJP/KRR
SHORT TERM...KRR
LONG TERM...
AVIATION...CJL/KJP/KRR
MARINE...CJL/KJP/KRR
TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
