612 
FXUS64 KMRX 260547 AAC
AFDMRX

Area Forecast Discussion...UPDATED
National Weather Service Morristown TN
147 AM EDT Wed Oct 26 2022

...New AVIATION...

.UPDATE...
Issued at 1022 PM EDT Tue Oct 25 2022

The line of showers ahead of an approaching front continues to
move eastward and weaken this evening with no lightning strikes
observed in the past hour. This is very much in line with the
strong lack in instability. The speed of this line has been a bit
faster than previously expected, which led to a reduction in PoPs
during the second half of the night. Also, many places have 
remained milder due to downsloping winds, which led to a slight 
increase in temperatures through the rest of the night. As winds 
continue to be gusty in the mountains, no changes to the Wind 
Advisory will be done, but the HWO wording will be updated to take
out severe wording. 

&&

.SHORT TERM...
(This evening through Wednesday)
Issued at 319 PM EDT Tue Oct 25 2022

Key Messages:

1. Rain and thunderstorms move through tonight from the west ahead 
of cold frontal passage-instability looks limited.

2. Wind advisory in effect through Wednesday morning across the 
mountain zones/higher elevations of the TN mountains.

3. Elevated fire risk through this evening due to recent dry streak, 
low RH values, and gusty winds. 

As an upper level closed low moves across OK/AR and up through the 
Ohio River Valley, strong 850 mb southerly flow of 50 to 60 kts will 
support strong and gusty winds with potential mountain wave activity 
this evening and overnight in the East TN Mountains and foothills. 
Latest HREF guidance show sustained winds could reach as high as 30 
to 40 mph across the higher elevations of the TN Mountains with 
gusts from 40 to 50 mph. Localized areas, such as Cove Mountain and 
other high peaks, may see gusts as high as 65 mph. Yesterday's 12Z 
HREF run had a 30% probability of the wind speeds mentioned above 
occurring and today's 12Z run has up to 50% chance probability with a 
very small area of up to 70%. This increase in probabilities also 
aligns well with what other high RES models are showing in terms of 
wind speed outputs. 

While the highest winds will be contained to the TN mountains and 
immediate foothills, the TN valley (particularly the southern 
valley) can expect gusty winds from 15-20 mph as well. The higher 
elevations of the Cumberland Plateau, southwest VA, and southwest NC 
can expect 15-20 mph as well with some areas nearing advisory 
level wind gusts. While a wind advisory is in effect through 8 AM 
Wednesday, the highest winds are expected between 6pm Tuesday and 
8am Wednesday.

The SPS that was issued earlier this morning for elevated fire risk 
remains in effect through midnight due to the combination of gusty 
southerly winds, the recent stretch of dry weather, and low RH 
values. All of these conditions compound into a scenario that could 
allow for existing fires, or new fires, to get out of hand or become 
uncontrolled.

As the cold front pushes across Tennessee from the west, rain and 
embedded thunderstorms move into the area late this afternoon and 
evening, possibly lingering into the overnight hours. Instability is 
still limited with only 100 to 200 J/kg CAPE available at best, 
mainly across our southwestern most areas (Marion/Hamilton 
Counties). With the limited instability guidance shows the squall 
weakening as it enters our area. However, due to the strong 850mb 
flow aloft, some showers/storms may be able to bring down these 
higher winds to the surface which could result in damage to-
- trees/powerlines down or possibly losing some spooky halloween 
decorations from your yard. 

Highest QPF values remain in our southwestern counties, ranging from 
0.15 to 0.50. Due to the storms weakening as they move east, and 
downsloping winds across the foothills, areas along and east of the 
I-81 corridor will see little to no rainfall. 

For Wednesday: Winds will shift to come out of the west behind 
the front, and rain chances dwindle by early to mid morning. High
temps generally in the mid 50s to low 60s on Wednesday afternoon.

&&

.LONG TERM...
(Wednesday night through next Tuesday)
Issued at 319 PM EDT Tue Oct 25 2022

Key Messages:

1. Light showers expected over the weekend on Sunday before tapering 
off into Halloween.

2. Temperatures slightly above normal through the period.

Discussion:

Zonal flow aloft begins the long term period Wednesday night. Our 
main feature of interest, an upper low, begins its quest in the 
western Rockies before dropping into Texas by Friday and moving east 
from there. Both Euro Ensembles and deterministic are slower and 
stronger than their GFS counterparts for the location and strength 
of the upper trough as we go through the weekend. However both sets 
(the Euro and the GFS) hold off on rain chances until the overnight 
period into Sunday, whereas the NBM begins to increase rain chances 
across the southern portion of our area Saturday afternoon. Adjusted 
POPs downward Saturday afternoon-evening to account for the lower 
probabilities from the two global models. Total precipitation for 
this weekend is expected to be light, on the order of a few tenths 
of an inch. Not exactly a drought buster, but we will take it.

Our rain producing upper low will slide onwards to the Great Lakes, 
pulling light showers out of the area from southwest to northeast on 
Monday. GFS manages to hold onto some lingering precip Monday 
evening, especially north of I-40, but like the overall system any 
rain is expected to be light.

Temperatures for the remainder of this week should remain a couple 
of degrees above normal this time of year, with the nicest day on 

&&

.AVIATION...
(06Z TAFS)
Issued at 137 AM EDT Wed Oct 26 2022

Some ISOLD to SCT SHRA were still present INVOF KTYS along the 
cold front, but expect those to clear by 09z there and by 11z at 
KTRI. Widespread MVFR CIGS will move into the TN valley before
daybreak and remain there through the day at KTYS and KTRI. 
However, increasingly NW surface flow off the southern plateau 
will likely lead to break up of low clouds at KCHA by late this 
afternoon.

&&

.PRELIMINARY POINT TEMPS/POPS...
Chattanooga Airport, TN             62  49  70  48 /   0   0   0   0 
Knoxville McGhee Tyson Airport, TN  62  48  69  45 /   0   0   0   0 
Oak Ridge, TN                       60  46  67  44 /   0   0   0   0 
Tri Cities Airport, TN              60  46  66  44 /  10   0   0   0 

&&

.MRX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
NC...NONE.
TN...Wind Advisory until 8 AM EDT this morning for Blount Smoky 
     Mountains-Cocke Smoky Mountains-Johnson-Sevier Smoky 
     Mountains-Southeast Carter-Southeast Greene-Southeast 
     Monroe-Unicoi.

VA...NONE.
&&

$$

SHORT TERM...Williams
LONG TERM....Wellington
AVIATION...CD
