583 
FXUS64 KMRX 262317
AFDMRX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Morristown TN
717 PM EDT Wed Oct 26 2022

...New AVIATION...

.SHORT TERM...
(This evening through Thursday)
Issued at 322 PM EDT Wed Oct 26 2022

Key Messages:

1. Clouds continue through this evening and late tonight.

2. Dry and clearer on Thursday with temperatures near seasonal
normals.

Discussion:

Cold front is east of the area with drier and cooler air arriving
from the northwest. Low/mid-level trough continues to move
eastward with a continued inversion setting up the low cloud deck
across the region this afternoon and into tonight. As this trough
axis shifts east late tonight, a gradual clearing late tonight and
into Thursday morning is expected.

Increasing upper level heights across the Southeast CONUS and an 
amplifying trough across the Great Plains will result in southwest
flow by Thursday afternoon. As high pressure begins to shift 
eastward, we get a more southerly and southeasterly low-level flow
with afternoon temperatures increasing to near seasonal normals. 

&&

.LONG TERM...
(Thursday night through next Wednesday)
Issued at 322 PM EDT Wed Oct 26 2022

Key Message:

Chances for widespread rain return this weekend and early next 
week.

Discussion:

Upper level wave digging into the Southern Rockies/Southern Plains 
will become cutoff and meander across Texas and the Arklatex by 
Saturday keeping southwest upper level flow sustained across the 
Tennessee Valley. Eventually this low will be picked up by a 
shortwave Sunday into early next week before ejecting the wave off 
to the northeast. Surface high pressure will remain anchored across 
New England late this week before an area of pressure deepens 
underneath the aforementioned upper low this weekend. Surface flow 
will generally remain out of the northeast or east, Thursday night 
through Friday night before winds veer toward a southerly direction 
into Saturday and Sunday. 

Increasing upper level ascent will begin to overspread the region as 
early as late Saturday night and especially on Sunday while moisture 
advection ramps up within increasing BL and 850mb flow. Guidance 
continues to slow this system down, which does make sense given a 
cutoff synoptic system. The current thinking is that precipitation 
chances begin to ramp up after 06Z Sunday with the maximum in PoPs 
expected between 12Z-00Z Sunday. Thunder chances look limited still 
and will continue to carry rain showers for now. Rain chances will 
decrease late Sunday night into early Monday, although southwest 
flow remaining across the region as a shortwave passes will keep 
scattered rain chances in the forecast through Monday night. 
Conditions begin to dry out Tuesday through Wednesday as high 
pressure at the surface moves across the Tennessee Valley.

&&

.AVIATION...
(00Z TAFS)
Issued at 714 PM EDT Wed Oct 26 2022

Off and on MVFR conditions will gradually improve to VFR at CHA
over the next several hours with the other sites likely to be off
and on MVFR through the night. VFR is expected to be in place from
Thursday morning onward across the region. Winds will also be 
fairly light and generally from the north to northeasterly 
direction. 

&&

.PRELIMINARY POINT TEMPS/POPS...
Chattanooga Airport, TN             47  70  48  72 /   0   0   0   0 
Knoxville McGhee Tyson Airport, TN  46  67  45  72 /   0   0   0   0 
Oak Ridge, TN                       45  67  45  71 /   0   0   0   0 
Tri Cities Airport, TN              43  66  42  67 /   0   0   0   0 

&&

.MRX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
NC...NONE.
TN...NONE.
VA...NONE.
&&

$$

SHORT TERM...JB
LONG TERM....Diegan
AVIATION...BW
