938 
FXUS66 KSGX 260927
AFDSGX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service San Diego CA
227 AM PDT Wed Oct 26 2022

.SYNOPSIS...
A low pressure trough will move through the West, increasing 
onshore flow and developing a coastal eddy. That will lead to 
cooler weather and increasing low clouds west of the mountains. 
Offshore flow develops Thursday, bringing locally gusty winds in 
the foothills, warmer weather and fewer clouds. Warmer weather and
patchy coastal clouds will continue through the weekend. Low 
pressure develops over the West next week for a cooling trend. 


.DISCUSSION...FOR EXTREME SOUTHWESTERN CALIFORNIA INCLUDING ORANGE...
SAN DIEGO...WESTERN RIVERSIDE AND SOUTHWESTERN SAN BERNARDINO
COUNTIES...

Low clouds are trying to form in coastal areas as a coastal eddy 
develops this morning. This time of year you hedge your bets 
against the marine layer and its cloud cover. Still, the eddy 
looks pretty robust for late October, so look for some coastal 
clouds during the nights and mornings for a while. A trough of low
pressure is moving through the West today, which will deepen our 
marine layer and extend areas of low clouds all the way to some 
inland valleys tonight into Thursday. Surface flow turns offshore
rather abrubtly overnight. Most guidance has pockets of gusty 
northeast winds below mountain passes, with top gusts around 25-35
mph Thursday morning. This will reverse the inland push of low 
clouds, but it's not enough to scour out the marine layer near the
coast, nor does it seem to faze the eddy whatsoever. The extent 
of the patchy low clouds should remain confined to coastal areas 
after Thursday morning. These are some details of a generally
non-hazardous weather pattern this coming week, with high and low
temperatures running just a little below normal. High 
temperatures will achieve normal Sunday and Monday, 70s to low 80s
for Halloween afternoon, but sweater weather will continue during
the mornings and evenings. A longwave trough of low pressure will
amplify over the western states next week. That will bring a 
cooling trend for SoCal starting Tuesday and deepen our marine 
layer, extending coastal clouds inland. There is considerable 
spread in ensemble member solutions, ranging from a dry and cool 
offshore-ish pattern, to a possible legitimate storm around 
Wednesday and/or Thursday. Our forecast remains dry through 
Tuesday, but it could get wet after that. 

&&

.AVIATION... 
260850Z...Coast/Valleys...Patchy low clouds with bases 1200-1700 ft 
MSL and tops to 2000 ft MSL will continue to develop through the 
morning, mainly over the San Diego County coast/valleys. Timing of 
CIGs at airports is low confidence. Low clouds clearing to the coast 
by 18Z. Areas of low clouds redeveloping after 27/00Z with bases 
near 1800-2500 ft MSL and tops to 3000 ft MSL, spreading into 
portions of the inland valleys overnight, obscuring lower coastal 
mountain slopes.

Mountains/Deserts...West winds with surface gusts 25-35 kt 
developing over the ridges, desert slopes, and below the passes 
around 27/00Z, weakening and shifting to northerly after 10Z. MOD 
up/downdrafts and pockets of LLWS over/east of the mountains during 
this time. Otherwise a few high clouds at/above 20,000 ft MSL and 
unrestricted vis through Thursday morning.

&&

.MARINE...
No hazardous marine weather or sea conditions are expected through 
Sunday.

&&

.SKYWARN... 
Skywarn activation is not requested. However weather spotters are
encouraged to report significant weather conditions.

&&

.SGX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CA...None.
PZ...None.

&&

$$

PUBLIC...MM
AVIATION/MARINE...SS
