911 
FXUS66 KSGX 262052
AFDSGX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service San Diego CA
152 PM PDT Wed Oct 26 2022

.SYNOPSIS...
A trough over the western U.S. will progress southward into
portions of the eastern Great Basin, bringing dry offshore flow
for our region over the next couple of days. This will keep the
marine layer shallower with more patchy clouds nights and
mornings with near to slightly below average temperatures. The
middle of next week has the potential for a changing weather
pattern, where a trough from the north may bring in cooler weather
and light showers across the region.
 

.DISCUSSION...FOR EXTREME SOUTHWESTERN CALIFORNIA INCLUDING ORANGE...
SAN DIEGO...WESTERN RIVERSIDE AND SOUTHWESTERN SAN BERNARDINO
COUNTIES...

.SHORT TERM (Today through Saturday)... 
Onshore flow has taken over this afternoon across the region, 
with scattered high clouds along with low clouds offshore. An area
of low pressure in eastern Idaho will continue to dip southward 
through the Intermountain West today into tomorrow. This trough 
will generate dry northerly flow across the Great Basin, leading 
to a weak Santa Ana wind event across our region by Thursday 
morning. HRRR/WRF model solutions are quite weak with these winds.
Noting this and the far proximity of the trough, I agree that the
winds for this event will be mainly be focused on and below 
mountain passes near coastal slope locations, including the Cajon 
Pass and parts of the IE. Most areas will see winds 25-35 MPH 
(locally 40-45 MPH). 

The offshore flow pattern will continue into Friday into Saturday,
though very weak across the mountains and foothills. This pattern
will bring temperatures near to slightly below average each day
with lovely fall-like crisp temperatures each night and early
morning. The marine layer is expected to be shallow, keeping
clouds west of the mountains patchy each night.

&&

.LONG TERM (Early to Mid-Next Week)...
A change in the weather pattern can be expected by next week. 
A weak area of high pressure will build into the by Sunday into
Monday, leading to warmer temperatures and dry weather. Forecast
ensemble guidance depicts this to be short-lived, showing a
deepening trough developing somewhere across the western part of
the country. We are still highly uncertain on where exactly this
trough will be placed and how deep it goes. If this trough is on
the stronger and deeper end, there is a chance it could lead to
much cooler weather with areas of rain and high elevation snow
showers. I agree with NBM solutions, putting in a chance for
precipiation across all areas starting early Wednesday morning. 
This will change over the coming days, so please keep an eye on 
the forecast as we get closer to the event!

&&

.AVIATION... 
261900Z...Coast/Valleys...FEW-SCT patchy low clouds along the coast 
and over the coastal waters. Patchy areas of low clouds redeveloping 
after 00Z Thu with bases near 1800-2500 ft MSL and tops to 3000 ft 
MSL, spreading into portions of the inland valleys overnight, 
obscuring lower coastal mountain slopes. Local vis restrictions of 2-
4SM on the edge of the cloud deck and near terrain. Low clouds 
should scatter and vis should improve 16-18Z Thu. 

Mountains/Deserts...West winds with surface gusts 25-35 kt 
developing over the ridges, desert slopes, and below the passes 
around 00Z Thu, weakening and shifting to northerly after 10Z. MOD 
up/downdrafts and pockets of LLWS over/east of the mountains during 
this time. Otherwise a few high clouds at/above 20,000 ft MSL and 
unrestricted vis through Thursday morning.

&&

.MARINE...
No hazardous marine weather or sea conditions are expected through 
Monday.

&&

.SKYWARN... 
Skywarn activation is not requested. However weather spotters are
encouraged to report significant weather conditions.


&&

.SGX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CA...None.
PZ...None.

&&

$$

PUBLIC...APR
AVIATION/MARINE...CO
