780 
FXUS66 KSGX 260256
AFDSGX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service San Diego CA
800 PM PDT Tue Oct 25 2022

.SYNOPSIS...
Onshore flow will lead to cooling, and a return of coastal low 
clouds and patchy fog through Thursday morning over coastal areas. 
Meantime, a weak offshore flow will develop on Thursday and continue 
into Friday, scaling back the marine clouds and leading to modest 
warming over the coastal basin into the weekend. For the rest of the 
week, the weather will remain dry over Southern California, with 
below average temperatures.

.DISCUSSION...FOR EXTREME SOUTHWESTERN CALIFORNIA INCLUDING ORANGE...
SAN DIEGO...WESTERN RIVERSIDE AND SOUTHWESTERN SAN BERNARDINO
COUNTIES...

Skies are clear over SoCal and the California Bight this evening. 
Coastal observations do indicate increasing dewpoints though, so the 
marine air is attempting a comeback. The sfc pressure gradient is 
weak across the Southland as of 7 PM PDT, but the weak onshore trend 
seems to be sufficient to generate S-SW winds of 10-15 MPH with some 
gusts around 20 MPH over and near the mountains. There was no sign 
of the eddy yet, but if it develops overnight as forecast, any low 
clouds should be lifted off the surface, minimizing the dense fog 
threat. Our 00Z Miramar sounding did not indicate much of a marine 
inversion, and showed weak W-NW winds from the sfc, up to about 5K 
FT MSL. No forecast updates are planned this evening.

From previous discussion...

A shortwave diving in from the Pacific Northwest will move
southeast across the Intermountain West through Wednesday. The
axis of this trough will pass SoCal by Wednesday night. Winds
ahead of this feature will be onshore. This will return the marine
layer tonight, and with a coastal eddy spinning up overnight,
likely deepen it modestly to mitigate dense fog concerns. Still,
patchy fog is possible over the coastal mesas by Wednesday
morning.

Surface high pressure will build into the Great Basin Wednesday
night-Thursday, resulting in off shore surface pressure gradients
over SoCal. Hi-res models point to weak Santa Ana wind conditions
late Wednesday night through Thursday. Northeast winds are
forecast to gust to 35-45 mph, strongest below the Cajon Pass and
immediately below the Santa Ana Mountains. 

Weak upper level ridging takes hold Thursday through Friday and
may hold through the weekend or transition to weak upper
troughing. The global model trends since yesterday are slightly
warmer for the weekend with a less amplified upper trough. 

A more significant trough is forecast over the western U.S. for 
the first week of November. How amplified the trough gets and 
whether there is enough of an oceanic trajectory will dictate 
whether or not precipitation arrives to SoCal. GEFS leans wetter 
than the EC ensemble. CPC hows cooler than normal conditions 
favored with slightly higher probabilities of wetter than normal 
conditions during the first week of November. 

&&

.AVIATION... 
260300Z...Coast/Valleys...Areas of mainly BKN low clouds with bases 
1200-2200 ft MSL and tops to 2500 ft MSL will gradually develop 10Z-
16Z Wed and continue through 18Z-21Z Wed, mainly San Diego County 
coast/valleys including VCNTY KSAN/KCRQ. Timing of CIGs at airports 
is low confidence. Patchy low clouds could occur again Wed evening. 
Most VIS should remain 6+ miles through Wed evening.

Mountains/Deserts...Clear skies with unrestricted VIS will continue 
through Wed evening.

&&

.MARINE...
No hazardous marine weather or sea conditions are expected through 
Sunday.

&&

.SGX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CA...None.
PZ...None.

&&

$$

PUBLIC...10/Gregoria
AVIATION/MARINE...Maxwell
