259 
FXUS66 KSGX 261602
AFDSGX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service San Diego CA
902 AM PDT Wed Oct 26 2022

.SYNOPSIS...
A low pressure trough will move through the West, increasing 
onshore flow and developing a coastal eddy. That will lead to 
cooler weather and increasing low clouds west of the mountains. 
Offshore flow develops Thursday, bringing locally gusty winds in 
the foothills, warmer weather and fewer clouds. Warmer weather and
patchy coastal clouds will continue through the weekend. Low 
pressure develops over the West next week for a cooling trend. 


.DISCUSSION...FOR EXTREME SOUTHWESTERN CALIFORNIA INCLUDING ORANGE...
SAN DIEGO...WESTERN RIVERSIDE AND SOUTHWESTERN SAN BERNARDINO
COUNTIES...

.Morning Update...
A nice crisp fall morning was felt out there with some lower
elevations dipping into the 30s and 40s, including Ramona, Borrego
Springs and Thermal. High and low temperatures will hover near to
slightly below normal readings through much of the week as subtle
changes in the upper air pattern are expected. A Catalina eddy
spinning off the coast this morning has brought in some low 
clouds near the coast and will continue to do so the next couple 
of nights/mornings. Latest hi-res model guidance continues to
depict a short and sweet Santa Ana wind event on Thursday morning,
where gusty winds will be weak and primarily focused on favored
passes/canyons near coastal mountain slopes.

Next week continues to look a little more interesting. Uncertainty
remains high, but a trough has the chance to impact the region by
the middle of next week, which may bring much cooler temperatures
and precipitation.

.Previous Forecast (227 AM Today)... 

Low clouds are trying to form in coastal areas as a coastal eddy 
develops this morning. This time of year you hedge your bets 
against the marine layer and its cloud cover. Still, the eddy 
looks pretty robust for late October, so look for some coastal 
clouds during the nights and mornings for a while. A trough of low
pressure is moving through the West today, which will deepen our 
marine layer and extend areas of low clouds all the way to some 
inland valleys tonight into Thursday. Surface flow turns offshore
rather abruptly overnight. Most guidance has pockets of gusty 
northeast winds below mountain passes, with top gusts around 25-35
mph Thursday morning. This will reverse the inland push of low 
clouds, but it's not enough to scour out the marine layer near the
coast, nor does it seem to faze the eddy whatsoever. The extent 
of the patchy low clouds should remain confined to coastal areas 
after Thursday morning. These are some details of a generally
non-hazardous weather pattern this coming week, with high and low
temperatures running just a little below normal. High 
temperatures will achieve normal Sunday and Monday, 70s to low 80s
for Halloween afternoon, but sweater weather will continue during
the mornings and evenings. A longwave trough of low pressure will
amplify over the western states next week. That will bring a 
cooling trend for SoCal starting Tuesday and deepen our marine 
layer, extending coastal clouds inland. There is considerable 
spread in ensemble member solutions, ranging from a dry and cool 
offshore-ish pattern, to a possible legitimate storm around 
Wednesday and/or Thursday. Our forecast remains dry through 
Tuesday, but it could get wet after that.

&&

.AVIATION... 
261530Z...Coast/Valleys...SCT to locally BKN patchy low clouds with 
bases 1500-2200 ft MSL will continue to develop through the morning, 
mainly over the San Diego County coast/valleys. Low clouds clearing 
to the coast by 18Z. Areas of low clouds redeveloping after 00Z Thu 
with bases near 1800-2500 ft MSL and tops to 3000 ft MSL, spreading 
into portions of the inland valleys overnight, obscuring lower 
coastal mountain slopes. Local vis restrictions of 2-4SM on the edge 
of the cloud deck and near terrain. 

Mountains/Deserts...West winds with surface gusts 25-35 kt 
developing over the ridges, desert slopes, and below the passes 
around 00Z Thu, weakening and shifting to northerly after 10Z. MOD 
up/downdrafts and pockets of LLWS over/east of the mountains during 
this time. Otherwise a few high clouds at/above 20,000 ft MSL and 
unrestricted vis through Thursday morning.

&&

.MARINE...
No hazardous marine weather or sea conditions are expected through 
Sunday.

&&

.MARINE...
No hazardous marine weather or sea conditions are expected through 
Sunday.

&&

.SKYWARN... 
Skywarn activation is not requested. However weather spotters are
encouraged to report significant weather conditions.


&&

.SGX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CA...None.
PZ...None.

&&

$$

Morning Update/PUBLIC...APR/MM
AVIATION/MARINE...CO
