191 
FXUS63 KDMX 260814
AFDDMX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Des Moines IA
314 AM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

.DISCUSSION.../Today through Tuesday/
Issued at 312 AM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

Key Messages:

-Minor chances for sprinkles west Thursday
-Largely quiet forecast with some upcoming mild days

High pressure continued to move in from the west overnight, setting 
up for an uneventful Wednesday for our area. Winds today will 
largely be variable, skies will be clear, and temperatures will 
remain cool under the CAA scheme. Midlevel moisture will pull in 
from the southwest overnight tonight ahead of a descending low, 
bringing in a blanket of midlevel clouds. The main axis of low-
level theta-e advection will be barred from extending too far into 
Iowa due to dry air undercutting on the backside of the departing 
high. A short window for a few sprinkles will be possible for far 
western counties early Thursday, but would be reduced to minimum 
accumulations due to this dry air. 

The low will sink into the Deep South on Friday and take the 
cloud cover with it. Some ridging will amplify immediately behind
the cutoff low and allow for high temperatures to climb back into 
the 60s Friday and Saturday. The cutoff low in the south will 
effectively block moisture transport northward and 
eventually get absorbed by the overarching midlevel pattern. A cold 
front will move in late Sunday but will likely be a dry 
passage.

For next week, the general flow will be out of the southwest, 
allowing for high temperatures to climb into the mid and upper 60s 
by Tuesday. A trough will form in the western CONUS during the week, 
but continues to show signs of a delayed eastward progression, 
stalling an eventual cooldown.

&&

.AVIATION.../For the 06Z TAFS through 06Z Wednesday night/
Issued at 1201 AM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

Patchy high clouds should exit east soon leading to clear skies
into Wednesday. VFR conditions are still anticipated through the
period, although confidence has decreased just a bit overnight 
with several surface obs already at or near 100% RH and fog 
possible. Have omitted mention however with winds just above the 
surface quickly jumping up into the teens /kts/ and likely 
creating too much turbulence for fog formation. High cloudiness is
expected to increase late in the period into Wednesday evening as
well.


&&

.DMX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
NONE.
&&

$$

DISCUSSION...Ansorge/Jimenez
AVIATION...Small
