641 
FXUS63 KDMX 261740
AFDDMX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Des Moines IA
1240 PM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

...Updated for the 18z Aviation Discussion...

.DISCUSSION.../Today through Tuesday/
Issued at 312 AM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

Key Messages:

-Minor chances for sprinkles west Thursday
-Largely quiet forecast with some upcoming mild days

High pressure continued to move in from the west overnight, setting 
up for an uneventful Wednesday for our area. Winds today will 
largely be variable, skies will be clear, and temperatures will 
remain cool under the CAA scheme. Midlevel moisture will pull in 
from the southwest overnight tonight ahead of a descending low, 
bringing in a blanket of midlevel clouds. The main axis of low-
level theta-e advection will be barred from extending too far into 
Iowa due to dry air undercutting on the backside of the departing 
high. A short window for a few sprinkles will be possible for far 
western counties early Thursday, but would be reduced to minimum 
accumulations due to this dry air. 

The low will sink into the Deep South on Friday and take the 
cloud cover with it. Some ridging will amplify immediately behind
the cutoff low and allow for high temperatures to climb back into 
the 60s Friday and Saturday. The cutoff low in the south will 
effectively block moisture transport northward and 
eventually get absorbed by the overarching midlevel pattern. A cold 
front will move in late Sunday but will likely be a dry 
passage.

For next week, the general flow will be out of the southwest, 
allowing for high temperatures to climb into the mid and upper 60s 
by Tuesday. A trough will form in the western CONUS during the week, 
but continues to show signs of a delayed eastward progression, 
stalling an eventual cooldown.

&&

.AVIATION.../For the 18Z TAFS through 18Z Thursday afternoon/
Issued at 1239 PM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

VFR conditions are expected through the TAF period across all
terminals. Clouds are expected to move in from west to east
through this afternoon to evening, though are not expected to
cause any major impacts as they will largely reside to the mid
levels at the lowest into Thursday. Winds will remain on the 
light side, turning southeasterly by this evening before 
increasing slightly after sunrise Thursday. Gusts around 15 to 20
knots are expected towards the end of the TAF period, especially 
north.

&&

.DMX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
NONE.
&&

$$

DISCUSSION...Ansorge/Jimenez
AVIATION...Bury
