794 
FXUS63 KDMX 260502
AFDDMX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Des Moines IA
1202 AM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

...Updated for the 06z Aviation Discussion...

.DISCUSSION.../Tonight through Tuesday/
Issued at 324 PM CDT Tue Oct 25 2022

Key Messages:

- Clearing overnight
- Low chances for precipitation for parts of northwest and western
  Iowa late Wednesday night into Thursday.
- Otherwise, mostly dry and near to above normal temperatures
  through the weekend.

Upper low pressure and an attendant surface low are over southeast 
Missouri this afternoon. A portion of the warm conveyor belt is 
wrapping around mid-level moisture into central Iowa but with dry 
air below 700 mb, little to no precipitation will occur in the 
forecast area outside maybe some sprinkles or very light rain into 
far southeast Davis county in the next few hours. There is a band of 
stratus that has transitioned to cellular clouds, moving through 
parts of central and north central Iowa. These clouds will continue 
move east/southeast into this evening and the mid-level clouds over 
the southeast will eventually pull out as the upper low passes to 
the east. 

Wednesday will begin the day mostly sunny as high pressure passes 
across the state. Return flow and theta-e advection on the backside 
of the high will lead to increasing clouds over western Iowa by the 
afternoon. Did introduce rain chances for late Wednesday night over 
parts of northwest Iowa as the stronger push of theta-e advection 
moves through that area and will feature deeper saturation. The 
aforementioned surface low will stall over the Great Lakes region 
with a surface ridge becoming established westward of the parent 
high. This ridge will build into Iowa on Thursday and will erode the 
low moisture and cloud bases will lift back to 10 kft for much of 
the area except for the west. Some low precipitation chances remain 
over the far west on Thursday while an upper low digs southeast 
through Colorado and into New Mexico. This upper low will become cut 
off as it settles over Texas on Friday then will eventually shear 
out and be ingested into the westerlies established to the north. 
With diminished forcing and moisture as this system shears out, so 
at this point, have kept next Sunday night and Monday dry.

For Iowa, the westerly flow will feature mostly dry conditions and 
near to above temperatures as top soil conditions dry and become 
easily warmed during the daytime hours. Expect temperatures this 
weekend and into early next week will be in the upper 50s to even 
upper 60s. This flow also features well above temperature anomalies 
through a large portion of the Canadian Provinces, thus any cold air 
is well to the north. The long wave trough development discussed 
yesterday, is more delayed into next week than it appeared 24 hrs 
ago and in fact, temperature anomalies for central Iowa only 
transition from above normal to more neutral by mid to late next 
week.

&&

.AVIATION.../For the 06Z TAFS through 06Z Wednesday night/
Issued at 1201 AM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

Patchy high clouds should exit east soon leading to clear skies
into Wednesday. VFR conditions are still anticipated through the
period, although confidence has decreased just a bit overnight 
with several surface obs already at or near 100% RH and fog 
possible. Have omitted mention however with winds just above the 
surface quickly jumping up into the teens /kts/ and likely 
creating too much turbulence for fog formation. High cloudiness is
expected to increase late in the period into Wednesday evening as
well.

&&

.DMX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...NONE.

&&

$$

DISCUSSION...Donavon
AVIATION...Small
