080 
FXUS63 KDMX 262327
AFDDMX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Des Moines IA
627 PM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

...Updated for the 00z Aviation Discussion...

.DISCUSSION.../Tonight through Wednesday/
Issued at 254 PM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

Forecast Highlights:

-Small chance for light rain mainly far west/northwest Iowa tonight 
and Thursday
-Breezy Thursday with mainly dry weather for much of the state
-Dry and quiet weather Friday through the rest of the forecast 
period, with above average temps possible

Surface high pressure overhead with broad low level northwesterly 
flow continues to bring dry and quiet weather across Iowa today. 
Satellite imagery shows mid to high level clouds over Nebraska 
streaming into the western half of Iowa this afternoon, while the 
rest of the state sits under sunny skies. Temperatures through the 
day have increased rather nicely, with values in the upper 40s 
through the 50s as well as light and variable winds. High pressure 
is expected to push out of the region later today into the evening. 
An upper shortwave trough currently out over the Intermountain West 
is expected to follow right behind the departing high as it enters 
into the central CONUS. Mid level clouds will continue to enter the 
state from the west as a result, but will remain dry through the 
rest of the afternoon to early evening. Overnight lows will fall 
into the upper 30s to the east, while slightly warmer to the west in 
the low to mid 40s thanks to the increased cloud cover. 

A flow shift turning southeasterly with increasing theta-e advection 
will aid to bring in more moisture over the Central Plains region 
with the passing shortwave, which is expected to bring the next 
chance for light rain showers later tonight into Thursday morning. 
Looking into model soundings though, the majority of model members 
tend to show a good amount of low level dry air across much of Iowa, 
which will likely limit the potential for much if any rain to reach 
the surface as better chances largely remain further west. Overall, 
far northwestern to western Iowa remains the most likely areas if 
any to see light rain Thursday, with overall QPF amounts looking to 
be up to a trace to a tenth of an inch at most. Otherwise all other 
areas of the state will remain dry with cloudy skies. The 
aforementioned flow out of the southeast will come with weak to 
moderate WAA into the region, which will allow for breezier 
conditions Thursday. Given the presence of some mixing through the 
low levels as well, gusts largely between 15 to 20 mph are expected, 
though lingering cloud cover with the passing disturbance may limit 
this slightly further east. Despite the warming air moving into the 
region, cloud cover could limit the insolation reaching the surface, 
as highs are only expected to remain in the 50s. 

Weak upper level ridging moving into the region is expected by 
Friday and into the weekend, which will bring in drier air and 
subsequent quiet weather across Iowa. As surface flow remains out of 
the southeast with ample sunshine expected, slightly warmer weather 
is expected as highs reach into the upper 50s to 60s. A trough and 
associated surface low sliding east across southern Canada looks to 
bring a weak cold frontal passage across the upper Midwest region on 
Sunday. Clouds are expected to increase with a wind shift back to 
the north/northwest late Sunday into Monday briefly, though 
remaining light. Dry air along and behind the front per model 
guidance will allow for conditions to remain dry, along with little 
change in temperatures with highs in the upper 50s to low 60s. Dry 
and benign weather looks to continue otherwise Monday through 
Wednesday as broad upper level ridging builds over the central CONUS 
as a deepening trough develops over the Great Basin region. This is 
expected to come with stronger southwesterly flow, bringing in much 
warmer air into the region as highs look to generally reach into the 
60s to even low 70s to start out the month of November. 

&&

.AVIATION.../For the 00Z TAFS through 00Z Thursday evening/
Issued at 626 PM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

Confidence is high in continued VFR conditions through the period
although there will be considerable mid level cloudiness. Winds 
will be SE into Thursday, initially light but then increase 
slightly by afternoon.

&&

.DMX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...NONE.

&&

$$

DISCUSSION...Bury/Hagenhoff
AVIATION...Small
