814 
FXUS65 KTWC 262133
AFDTWC

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Tucson AZ
232 PM MST Wed Oct 26 2022

.SYNOPSIS...A weak weather system will pass to our northeast on 
Thursday bringing breezy, northwest winds and a few degrees of 
cooling to the area. Quiet weather will follow through the weekend 
accompanied by a gradual warming trend.

&&

.DISCUSSION...Models were in good agreement with a weak system 
clipping far northeast AZ tonight through Thursday. This feature 
will bring breezy to locally windy conditions to the area along with 
a few degrees of cooling on Thursday. The highest wind speeds will 
be across Greenlee, Graham, and Cochise counties Thursday afternoon 
and evening. This will especially be the case for the Upper Gila 
River Valley around Safford. At this time, wind speeds were 
projected to remain below the wind advisory criteria across most of 
the area. Otherwise, high pressure aloft will build over the region 
in the wake of this system resulting in a warming trend through the 
weekend. The latest ensembles have shifted the next chance for 
precipitation to the middle and later part of next week as a 
stronger low pressure system moves into the western United States. 

&&

.AVIATION...Valid through 28/00Z.
A few high clouds. Otherwise, SKC. SFC wind less than 20 kts through 
27/16Z...then W-NWLY 10-20 kts with gusts to 30 kts. Higher SFC wind 
speeds east of KTUS and KOLS. Aviation discussion not updated for 
TAF amendments.

&&

.FIRE WEATHER...Seasonable daytime temperatures and dry weather can 
be expected for the next several days. Relative humidity values will 
experience a modest increase on Thursday as a weather system clips 
northeast Arizona. This same system will bring an increase in 20-ft 
winds with speeds of 15-20 mph from the west and northwest Thursday 
afternoon and evening. The strongest winds will be in the Upper Gila 
River Valley around Safford where gusts of 15-25 mph will be 
possible. Otherwise, quiet weather will follow through the weekend 
accompanied by a gradual warming trend.

&&

.TWC WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...None.

&&

$$

Visit us on Facebook...Twitter...YouTube...and at weather.gov/Tucson
