931 
FXUS65 KTWC 260938
AFDTWC

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Tucson AZ
238 AM MST Wed Oct 26 2022

.SYNOPSIS...
Another warm day expected after a chilly start with sunny skies. 
A weak weather system will pass to our northeast on Thursday 
bringing breezy, northwest winds and a few degrees of cooling to 
the area. Quiet weather will follow through the weekend 
accompanied by a gradual warming trend.

&&

.DISCUSSION...Today through Tuesday. 

Another chilly morning in store with several valley spots east and
south of Tucson in the mid 30s as of 230 AM MST. Near freezing 
lows are likely in these spots by around sunrise. Temps will be a
few degrees warmer than yesterday but still shy of normal. Going 
into tonight, a weak weather system will shift across the Four 
Corners and New Mexico through tomorrow. The local area will 
remain dry with an uptick in the winds as local pressure gradient 
tightens between this feature and incoming ridge. Strongest winds 
will be focused down the Upper Gila River Valley and across the 
White Mountains. The river valley will see northwest enhancement 
with speeds of 20-30 mph gusting 30-40 mph. Isolated spots could 
touch Wind Advisory criteria but at this point looks localized 
enough to not warrant any headlines. If winds trend upwards, that 
could change. Other than winds, temps will see a modest drop and 
colder valleys will once again toy with freezing low temps Friday 
and Saturday mornings. 

Ridge in place through the weekend will allow for a gradual 
warming trend and overall quiet weather. Halloween weather is 
looking promising. The previous wave that was being watched for 
Monday has shifted southward along with any local impacts. Current
trick-or-treat forecast looks to be light winds with temps 
dropping off from the 70s into the low to mid 60s for most lower 
elevation locations. Cooler valleys could see upper 50s by Monday 
evening. Ensembles have shifted the next chance for precip to mid
to late next week as a stronger low pressure system moves into 
the West. 

&&

.AVIATION...Valid through 27/12Z.
SKC conditions will prevail across southeast Arizona through early 
this evening, before FEW250 develop from the develop from west to 
east across the area overnight. Light SELY surface winds 5-10 kts 
for KTUS through 25/21Z then shifting W-NWLY and becoming 8-13 kts 
for SE AZ terminals. Winds diminish aft 26/03Z becoming 10 kts or 
less in valleys. Aviation discussion not updated for TAF
amendments.

&&

.FIRE WEATHER...
Seasonable daytime temperatures and dry weather can be expected 
for the next several days. Relative humidity values will drop to 
10 to 20 percent for lower elevations today before a modest
moisture increase on Thursday. Values will drop back into this 
range Friday into early next week for the lower deserts from 
Tucson westward. 20-ft winds remain less than 15 mph today before 
a weak weather disturbance passes to our northeast tomorrow 
allowing for northwest winds to increase to 15-20 mph, primarily 
across Graham, Greenlee, and Cochise counties. Highest winds will 
be in the Upper Gila River valley where speeds of 20-25 mph with
gusts will be possible during the afternoon and early evening.
&&

.TWC WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
None.
&&

$$

Guillet/Tripoli

Visit us on Facebook...Twitter...YouTube...and at weather.gov/Tucson
