510 
FXUS66 KSEW 260400
AFDSEW

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Seattle WA
855 PM PDT Tue Oct 25 2022

.SYNOPSIS...Areas of rain moving across the area this afternoon
with a frontal system. Mountain snow, mainly for elevations above
4000 feet this afternoon into tonight. A brief break in
precipitation for the lowlands Wednesday. Another front Thursday-
Friday, as well as later in the weekend. 

&&

.SHORT TERM /TONIGHT THROUGH FRIDAY/...Showers associated with the 
passing front continue to diminish in intensity but there are two 
areas of note. First, along the Cascade foothills of Snohomish and 
Skagit counties there is a persistent band of showers making very 
slow eastward progress. Fortunately, radar estimated rainfall there 
is slowly easing with rainfall rates falling from around 0.3 inches 
per hour to around 0.1 inches per hour...and this downward trend 
continues. Second, a cluster of showers over the SW interior is 
maintaining radar estimated rainfall rates of up to 0.3 inches per 
hour as it tries a little bit better to hold together than the first 
batch mentioned, but even this group is starting to ebb. Still, this 
will warrant the inherited Urban and Small Stream Flood Advisory to 
remain in place until its expiration. Biggest forecast issue for 
this evening will be whether or not any of the burn scars will be 
impacted by not only current rain, but if a PSCZ will develop to 
exacerbate matters. Primary concern will be with the Bolt Creek burn 
scar, but latest guidance has remained mostly consistent that any 
convergence zone should form away from that location. Otherwise, no 
need for any forecast updates this evening. For further forecast 
details, please refer to the Previous Discussion section below.  18

From Previous Discussion...Rain across much of Western Washington 
this afternoon as a weather system moves across the area. A few 
thunderstorms have been observed along the coastal waters with the 
front today, though most activity will mainly be along the coast 
into this evening. In the mountains, a Winter Weather Advisory is in 
effect this afternoon through tonight for areas above 4000 feet. 
Amounts of ranging 5 to 12 inches, with a bit heavier amounts for 
the highest elevations. A Puget Sound Convergence Zone may develop 
tonight into early Wednesday across Snohomish/King Counties for 
increasing precip in these areas. 

A brief dry period on Wednesday for the interior lowlands, with
likely scattered light showers for the mountains. Light
precipitation across the area Wednesday evening. An AR will likely
be focused north of the area Wednesday night and drift southward
across Western Washington Thursday. Heavier precipitation is 
likely during this period. In addition, increasing winds are 
likely with a tighter pressure gradient. The strongest winds into 
Thursday will likely be along the coast and into the north 
interior, Western Whatcom/Skagit/Admiralty Inlet, and San Juan 
Islands. Breezy winds for much of the interior though, and 
additional headlines should be monitored during this time period. 

The heavier precipitation will slowly drift south into Friday
towards southern WA/northern OR, with the best chance of
precipitation Friday in this area. Winds will taper off Thursday
night into Friday. 

.LONG TERM /SATURDAY THROUGH TUESDAY/...From Previous Discussion...A 
rather active weather period into next week with multiple fronts 
moving across the area. The front will likely stall south of the 
area Friday night prior to moving northward a bit on Saturday, 
however, some uncertainty into guidance into how far north the 
heavier precipitation gets to on Saturday. A more significant 
weather system may impact the area Sunday for heavier rainfall, as 
well as breezy winds. Troughing will be over the area into early 
next week for a cool, showery weather pattern for the area. JD

&&
.AVIATION...An upper level trough will continue to traverse the area 
this evening. A switch to more north-northwesterly flow aloft is 
expected. Radar this evening still showing widespread rain across 
the interior this evening, which continues to bring widespread MVFR 
ceilings and localized IFR ceilings to the interior terminals at 
times. Overall, expect rain to decrease in coverage into the 
overnight hours which should allow terminals to rebound to VFR. A 
convergence zone may develop later tonight, so areas within this 
zone (KBFI, KPAE, KSEA) could continue to see lowered ceilings 
(MVFR) and precipitation as this feature meanders into early 
Wednesday morning. South- southwesterly winds between 10-20 kts will 
continue to decrease into the overnight period. However, a westerly 
surge through Strait of Juan de Fuca will keep winds elevated at 
KCLM between 8-15 kt with gusts near 20 kt during this time. 

KSEA...MVFR ceilings persist at the terminal tonight and will 
continue into the overnight period with rain keeping ceilings down 
and visibilities reduced at times. Southerly winds 10-15 kt will 
continue to decrease tonight. MVFR ceilings are possible into 
Tuesday morning as well, before gradually rebounding towards VFR.

McMillian

&&

.MARINE...An active weather pattern will continue through the week
and into the weekend. Winds have gradually started to ease across 
the interior waters this evening, so have let the gale warning for 
the Northern Inland Waters expire with the forecast update. Post-
frontal westerly winds will remain breezy along the central and 
eastern Strait of Juan de Fuca into Wednesday morning, so have 
maintained the Small Craft Advisory for those marine zones. SCA 
strength winds and seas above 10 ft will linger across the coastal 
waters into Wednesday. 

A brief reprieve will be possible on Wednesday morning and 
afternoon. However, the next system will move into the area waters 
Wednesday night into Thursday, bringing yet another round of 
widespread gusty winds and elevated seas. Latest guidance  continues 
to hint at possible gales for the coastal waters and the northern 
interior waters on Thursday. Winds then look to ease again on 
Friday, with additional systems over the weekend likely yielding 
additional headlines across the area waters at times. 

Seas are to remain between 10-12 ft tonight through Wednesday 
morning. A brief decrease is possible between 8 to 10 ft Wednesday 
afternoon, before seas increase again on Thursday. Seas could top 
out between 15-20 ft Thursday into Friday.

McMillian/14

&&

.HYDROLOGY...No river flooding is expected over the next 7 days.
Another frontal system will move across Western Washington into
tonight, with heavier rainfall. In addition, a convergence zone
may develop late tonight into Wednesday morning near
Snohomish/King Counties, and burn scar areas in this region will
need to be monitored. Additional heavier precipitation is 
expected Thursday into Thursday night and Sunday. JD
 
&&

.SEW WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
WA...Winter Weather Advisory until 5 AM PDT Wednesday for West Slopes 
     North Cascades and Passes-West Slopes North Central 
     Cascades and Passes-West Slopes South Central Cascades and 
     Passes.

PZ...Small Craft Advisory until 11 AM PDT Wednesday for Coastal 
     Waters From Cape Flattery To James Island 10 To 60 Nm-
     Coastal Waters From Cape Flattery To James Island Out 10 Nm-
     Coastal Waters From James Island To Point Grenville 10 To 
     60 Nm-Coastal Waters From James Island To Point Grenville 
     Out 10 Nm-Coastal Waters From Point Grenville To Cape 
     Shoalwater 10 To 60 Nm-Coastal Waters From Point Grenville 
     To Cape Shoalwater Out 10 Nm-Grays Harbor Bar.

     Small Craft Advisory until 8 AM PDT Wednesday for Central U.S. 
     Waters Strait Of Juan De Fuca-East Entrance U.S. Waters 
     Strait Of Juan De Fuca.

&&

$$
