726 
FXUS66 KSEW 261549
AFDSEW

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Seattle WA
849 AM PDT Wed Oct 26 2022

.UPDATE...A few showers continue this morning across Snohomish
County with weak convergence. These showers will dissipate through
the morning for mainly dry weather for the lowlands today. Light
rain expected this evening. 

&&

.SYNOPSIS...Lingering showers will taper off for the lowlands this
morning, with showers for the Cascades. A stronger weather system
will impact the area Thursday-Thursday night for increasing winds
and heavier rain. An additional system expected later this
weekend.

&&

.SHORT TERM /TODAY THROUGH FRIDAY/...Rain showers associated with
the passing front continue to persist over the Cascade foothills 
of Snohomish and King counties. Seemingly enough, a Puget Sound 
Convergence Zone is currently over the Snohomish/King county line.
Northwesterly flow is helping the convergence zone persist, but
should taper off by the early morning hours. Have extended the winter
weather advisory due to the PCSZ, which is in effect until mid 
morning for areas above 4000 feet within the mountains. 
Additional accumulations around 2 to 4 is possible, with the 
higher amounts for the highest elevations. 

A very weak shortwave ridge looks to try to build in the area this
morning, which will help give a brief dry period throughout the
first half of the day, with some lingering rain showers in the
mountains. This will very quickly flatten, opening the door for 
atmospheric moisture to spread throughout Western Washington the 
second half of the day. Rain will start later tonight into 
Thursday. This swath of moisture will slowly shift from the north 
to the south on Thursday, as well with breezy winds throughout our
region. Right now, strongest winds will likely be located along 
the coastal regions and into the northern interior. Although it 
will be breezy across Western Washington, areas more north 
(Western Whatcom, Skagit, San Juan Islands, and Whidbey Island) 
will likely experience stronger winds due to a tighter pressure 
gradient. Winds will taper off as we head into Friday. Headlines 
may be needed for this time period.

High temperatures will range in the low 50s to mid 50s today, 
with Thursday being a touch warmer in the upper 50s. 

Localized precipitation likely in the southern portions of our CWA
on Friday as it gradually moves southward towards Oregon.

.LONG TERM /SATURDAY THROUGH TUESDAY/...Active weather will
continue to persist in the long term. Ensemble guidance still
somewhat bullish on the timing of a front moving through early
Friday. Although the front looks to slow down a bit, heavier
precipitation seems to be more likely on the northern portions of
of our region. 

Cluster analysis and both ensemble solutions point to a
larger upper level trough dropping down from the north on Sunday,
with a good amount of moisture with it. This could potentially be
a more wetter and breezier weather system for our area, but will
continue to iron out the details in the next coming days.

Mazurkiewicz

&&

.AVIATION...Showers have mostly dwindled this morning as an upper-
level trough pivots off to our east. One band of showers remains 
over KPAE associated with the convergence zone, but everyone else is 
dry so far this morning. Mostly MVFR conditions this morning with 
more transition to VFR as southerly flow increases from 5 to 10 
knots over the Puget Sound sites. Westerly wind behind last night's 
cold front will continue at KCLM from 5 to 10 knots. A weak 
disturbance moves into the region tonight, bringing scattered 
showers to the area, though much less coverage and intensity to the 
previous several frontal systems. Southerly winds will increase with 
gusts above 20 knots for most of the sites heading into Thursday 
ahead of a much stronger frontal system.

KSEA...MVFR cigs at the terminal currently, although lower cigs 
surround the terminal at this hour. Have opted for a tempo group to 
reflect any of the surrounding low clouds impacting the terminal 
this morning. Showers along a convergence band should remain north 
of the terminal through this time as well. Southwesterly winds today 
from 5 to 10 knots. A weak mid-level disturbance brings scattered 
showers this evening after 03Z. Winds increase out of the south-
southwest Thursday ahead of a stronger frontal system, with gusts 
above 20 knots possible. 

&&

.MARINE...An active weather pattern will continue through the week 
ahead. Post-frontal westerly winds will remain breezy along the 
central and eastern Strait of Juan de Fuca but will ease this 
morning. Elsewhere, combined seas will remain 10-11 ft over the 
coastal waters much of today, so the advisory has been extended.

A brief reprieve will be possible today, but the next front will not 
be far behind. Expect bringing yet another round of widespread gusty 
winds and building seas, with some potential for gales across the 
northern interior waters on Thursday where a gale watch has been 
issued. Confidence remains lower over the coastal waters, but expect 
that advisories will need to be posted for many of the remaining 
zones, including Puget Sound. Winds then look to ease again on 
Friday, with additional systems over the weekend likely yielding 
additional headlines across the area waters at times. 

Seas are to remain between 10-12 ft tonight through Wednesday 
morning. A brief decrease is possible between 8 to 10 ft Wednesday
afternoon, before seas increase again on Thursday. Seas could top
out between 15-20 ft Thursday into Friday.

Kristell/Cullen

&&

.HYDROLOGY...No river flooding is expected over the next 7 days.
Additional heavier precipitation is expected Thursday into 
Thursday night and Sunday. Burn scar areas in this region will 
need to be monitored as well. JD

&&

.SEW WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
WA...None.
PZ...Small Craft Advisory until 8 PM PDT this evening for Grays 
     Harbor Bar.

     Gale Watch from Thursday morning through Thursday evening for 
     East Entrance U.S. Waters Strait Of Juan De Fuca-Northern 
     Inland Waters Including The San Juan Islands.

     Small Craft Advisory until 5 PM PDT this afternoon for Coastal 
     Waters From Cape Flattery To James Island 10 To 60 Nm-
     Coastal Waters From Cape Flattery To James Island Out 10 Nm-
     Coastal Waters From James Island To Point Grenville 10 To 
     60 Nm-Coastal Waters From James Island To Point Grenville 
     Out 10 Nm-Coastal Waters From Point Grenville To Cape 
     Shoalwater 10 To 60 Nm-Coastal Waters From Point Grenville 
     To Cape Shoalwater Out 10 Nm.

&&

$$
