040 
FXUS66 KSEW 262224
AFDSEW

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Seattle WA
324 PM PDT Wed Oct 26 2022

.SYNOPSIS...A weak warm frontal system will move through the area
tonight for light rain. Increasing winds and rain Thursday into
Thursday night with a stronger front. Mainly light precipitation
Friday-Saturday. Another strong system Sunday into Sunday night.
Cooler, showery weather next week. 

&&

.SHORT TERM /TONIGHT THROUGH SATURDAY/...Light rain is moving
onshore this afternoon as a warm front moves towards the area. The
warm front will mainly move north of the area into tonight for
light rain this evening and tonight. Western Washington will be
located in the warm sector on Thursday with increasing southerly
winds late tonight and through Thursday. Wind Advisories have been
issued across the North Coast, Western Whatcom/Skagit Counties,
Western Snohomish, Admiralty Inlet, and the San Juan Islands on
Thursday. Wind gusts in these areas likely 35-50 MPH during this
period, with the strongest gusts near the water along Whatcom
County and Admiralty Inlet. Breezy winds elsewhere, with gusts of
25-35 MPH across much of the Puget Sound, with locally higher
gusts to 40 MPH possible. Power outages are possible through the 
day with the stronger winds. Winds will taper off late Thursday 
evening into Thursday night as the front slides to the south. Rain
will be heaviest Thursday night with the front. 

Rain will be possible into Friday, especially Snohomish County
southward as the front continues to move south and stalls near
briefly across southern Washington. Another weather system focused
towards British Columbia on Saturday will bring potential showers,
especially for northern areas. Snow levels will increase above
5000 feet tonight and be above 5000 feet through Thursday night.
Temperatures on Thursday will likely reach the upper 50s to low
60s across much of the area, cooler Friday. 

.LONG TERM /SUNDAY THROUGH WEDNESDAY/...Another strong weather
system will impact the area on Sunday, bringing increasing winds
and heavier precipitation. Guidance/ensemble are generally
consistent in timing of the front, with strong winds Sunday, and
heavier rain late Sunday into Sunday night. Snow levels with this
system mainly 5000 to 6000 feet. Troughing will slide south of the
Pacific Northwest early next week for showery weather. In
addition, likely cooler temperatures are expected with potential
frost away from the waters each morning early-mid next week.
Temperatures for highs in the upper 40s to mid 50s. JD

&&

.AVIATION...Showers are arriving back on the coast this 
afternoon and will likely spread inland to some extent. A weak 
disturbance moves into the region tonight, bringing scattered 
showers to the area, though much less coverage and intensity to the 
previous several frontal systems. Southerly winds will increase with 
gusts above 20 knots for most of the sites heading into Thursday 
ahead of a much stronger frontal system. Strong low level winds 
below 2,000 to 3,000 feet are possible across many of the terminals 
through Thursday afternoon. 

KSEA...VFR cigs at the terminal this afternoon with a SCT layer 
around 2,000 feet. As a weak disturbance passes through this 
evening, some showers are possible at and in the vicinity of the 
terminal through 05Z for MVFR cigs. Not enough confidence to declare 
-RA in the TAF but it cannot be ruled out. Winds increase out of the 
south-southwest Thursday ahead of a stronger frontal system, with 
gusts above 20 knots possible. Strong low level wind below 3,000 
feet possible as Thursday's front arrives, but conditions will be 
monitored for the potential for LLWS.

Kristell 

&&

.MARINE...An active weather pattern will continue through the week 
ahead. Expect another round of widespread gusty winds and building 
seas, with gales across the northern interior waters on Thursday 
where a gale watch has been upgraded to a gale warning. Additional 
advisories have been posted for the coastal waters, Puget Sound, and 
portions of the Strait. Gale Warnings have also been issued for the 
Northern Inland Waters including Admiralty Inlet as the front passes 
tomorrow morning. Winds then look to ease again on Friday, with 
additional systems over the weekend likely yielding additional 
headlines across the area waters at times. 

Seas increase again on Thursday. Seas could top out between 10-15 ft 
Thursday into Friday, generally staying elevated through the weekend 
as additional frontal systems move into the area. 

Kristell

&&

.HYDROLOGY...No river flooding is expected over the next 7 days.
Heavier precipitation is expected Thursday evening through
Thursday night, as well as Sunday into Sunday night. Burn scar 
areas in this region will need to be monitored as well. JD

&&

.SEW WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
WA...Wind Advisory from 5 AM to 8 PM PDT Thursday for Admiralty Inlet 
     Area-Everett and Vicinity-San Juan County-Western Skagit 
     County-Western Whatcom County.

     Wind Advisory from 5 AM to 5 PM PDT Thursday for North Coast.

PZ...Small Craft Advisory until 8 PM PDT this evening for Grays 
     Harbor Bar.

     Small Craft Advisory from 11 AM to 11 PM PDT Thursday for Grays 
     Harbor Bar.

     Small Craft Advisory from 8 AM to 5 PM PDT Thursday for Central 
     U.S. Waters Strait Of Juan De Fuca-West Entrance U.S. 
     Waters Strait Of Juan De Fuca.

     Gale Warning from 8 AM to 8 PM PDT Thursday for Admiralty Inlet-
     East Entrance U.S. Waters Strait Of Juan De Fuca-Northern 
     Inland Waters Including The San Juan Islands.

     Small Craft Advisory from 5 AM to 11 PM PDT Thursday for Puget 
     Sound and Hood Canal.

     Small Craft Advisory until 5 PM PDT this afternoon for Coastal 
     Waters From Cape Flattery To James Island 10 To 60 Nm-
     Coastal Waters From Cape Flattery To James Island Out 10 Nm-
     Coastal Waters From James Island To Point Grenville 10 To 
     60 Nm-Coastal Waters From James Island To Point Grenville 
     Out 10 Nm-Coastal Waters From Point Grenville To Cape 
     Shoalwater 10 To 60 Nm-Coastal Waters From Point Grenville 
     To Cape Shoalwater Out 10 Nm.

     Gale Warning from 8 AM to 2 PM PDT Thursday for Coastal Waters 
     From Cape Flattery To James Island 10 To 60 Nm-Coastal 
     Waters From Cape Flattery To James Island Out 10 Nm.

     Small Craft Advisory from 5 AM to 8 PM PDT Thursday for Coastal 
     Waters From James Island To Point Grenville 10 To 60 Nm-
     Coastal Waters From James Island To Point Grenville Out 10 
     Nm-Coastal Waters From Point Grenville To Cape Shoalwater 
     10 To 60 Nm-Coastal Waters From Point Grenville To Cape 
     Shoalwater Out 10 Nm.

&&

$$
