588 
FXUS66 KSEW 260559
AFDSEW

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Seattle WA
1059 PM PDT Tue Oct 25 2022

.SYNOPSIS...Areas of rain still moving across the area this
evening with a frontal system exiting our area. Mountain snow,
mainly for elevations above 4000 feet this evening into tonight. A
brief break in precipitation for the lowlands Wednesday. Another
front Thursday into Friday, as well later in the weekend. 

&&

.SHORT TERM /TONIGHT THROUGH FRIDAY/...Showers associated with the 
passing front continue to diminish in intensity but there are two 
areas of note. First, along the Cascade foothills of Snohomish and 
Skagit counties there is a persistent band of showers making very 
slow eastward progress. Fortunately, radar estimated rainfall there 
is slowly easing with rainfall rates falling from around 0.3 inches 
per hour to around 0.1 inches per hour...and this downward trend 
continues. Second, a cluster of showers over the SW interior is 
maintaining radar estimated rainfall rates of up to 0.3 inches per 
hour as it tries a little bit better to hold together than the first 
batch mentioned, but even this group is starting to ebb. Still, this 
will warrant the inherited Urban and Small Stream Flood Advisory to 
remain in place until its expiration. Biggest forecast issue for 
this evening will be whether or not any of the burn scars will be 
impacted by not only current rain, but if a PSCZ will develop to 
exacerbate matters. Primary concern will be with the Bolt Creek burn 
scar, but latest guidance has remained mostly consistent that any 
convergence zone should form away from that location. Otherwise, no 
need for any forecast updates this evening. For further forecast 
details, please refer to the Previous Discussion section below. 18

In the mountains, a Winter Weather Advisory is in effect this 
evening through tonight for areas above 4000 feet. Amounts of 
ranging 5 to 12 inches, with a bit heavier amounts for the highest
elevations. 

A brief dry period on Wednesday for the interior 
lowlands, with likely scattered light showers for the mountains. 
Light precipitation across the area Wednesday evening. An AR will 
likely be focused north of the area Wednesday night and drift 
southward across Western Washington Thursday. Heavier 
precipitation is likely during this period. In addition, 
increasing winds are likely with a tighter pressure gradient. The 
strongest winds into Thursday will likely be along the coast and 
into the north interior, Western Whatcom/Skagit/Admiralty Inlet, 
and San Juan Islands. Breezy winds for much of the interior 
though, and additional headlines should be monitored during this 
time period. 

The heavier precipitation will slowly drift south into Friday
towards southern WA/northern OR, with the best chance of
precipitation Friday in this area. Winds will taper off Thursday
night into Friday.

.LONG TERM /SATURDAY THROUGH TUESDAY/...A rather active weather 
period into next week with multiple fronts moving across the area.
The front will likely stall south of the area Friday night prior 
to moving northward a bit on Saturday, however, some uncertainty 
into guidance into how far north the heavier precipitation gets to
on Saturday. A more significant weather system may impact the 
area Sunday for heavier rainfall, as well as breezy winds. 
Troughing will be over the area into early next week for a cool, 
showery weather pattern for the area. JD

&&

.AVIATION...An upper level trough continues to shift east of the 
region. A switch to more north-northwesterly flow aloft is expected 
through the rest of the night. Showers are slowly shifting east into 
the Cascades with showers lingering over most of the TAF sites 
through at least 08Z. This is leading to some localized MVFR and 
even IFR CIGs, but the overall trend is for the rain to decrease in 
coverage into the overnight hours which should allow terminals to 
rebound to VFR. A convergence zone may develop later tonight, so 
areas within this zone (KBFI, KPAE, KSEA) could continue to see 
lowered ceilings (MVFR) and precipitation as this feature meanders 
into early Wednesday morning. South- southwesterly winds between 10-
15 kts will continue to decrease into the overnight period. However, 
a westerly surge through Strait of Juan de Fuca will keep winds 
elevated at KCLM between 8-12 kt through Wednesday morning. 

KSEA...MVFR ceilings persist through the overnight period with rain 
slowly moving off to the east, leaving showers in its wake. 
Southerly winds 10-15 kt will continue to decrease through 08Z. MVFR 
ceilings are possible into Wednesday morning as well, before 
gradually rebounding towards VFR. The next area of rain looks to 
move into the region after 00Z Wednesday, though coverage and 
intensity look to remain less than the previous set of frontal 
systems. 

McMillian/Davis

&&

.MARINE...An active weather pattern will continue through the week
and into the weekend. Winds have gradually started to ease across
the interior waters this evening, so have let the gale warning 
for the Northern Inland Waters expire with the forecast update. 
Post-frontal westerly winds will remain breezy along the central 
and eastern Strait of Juan de Fuca into Wednesday morning, so have
maintained the Small Craft Advisory for those marine zones. SCA
strength winds and seas above 10 ft will linger across the coastal
waters into Wednesday. 

A brief reprieve will be possible on Wednesday morning and 
afternoon. However, the next system will move into the area 
waters Wednesday night into Thursday, bringing yet another round 
of widespread gusty winds and elevated seas. Latest guidance  
continues to hint at possible gales for the coastal waters and the
northern interior waters on Thursday. Winds then look to ease 
again on Friday, with additional systems over the weekend likely 
yielding additional headlines across the area waters at times. 

Seas are to remain between 10-12 ft tonight through Wednesday 
morning. A brief decrease is possible between 8 to 10 ft Wednesday
afternoon, before seas increase again on Thursday. Seas could top
out between 15-20 ft Thursday into Friday.

McMillian/14

&&

.HYDROLOGY...No river flooding is expected over the next 7 days.
Another frontal system will move across Western Washington into
tonight, with heavier rainfall. In addition, a convergence zone
may develop late tonight into Wednesday morning near
Snohomish/King Counties, and burn scar areas in this region will
need to be monitored. Additional heavier precipitation is 
expected Thursday into Thursday night and Sunday. JD

&&

.SEW WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
WA...Winter Weather Advisory until 5 AM PDT Wednesday for West Slopes 
     North Cascades and Passes-West Slopes North Central 
     Cascades and Passes-West Slopes South Central Cascades and 
     Passes.

PZ...Small Craft Advisory until 11 AM PDT Wednesday for Coastal 
     Waters From Cape Flattery To James Island 10 To 60 Nm-
     Coastal Waters From Cape Flattery To James Island Out 10 Nm-
     Coastal Waters From James Island To Point Grenville 10 To 
     60 Nm-Coastal Waters From James Island To Point Grenville 
     Out 10 Nm-Coastal Waters From Point Grenville To Cape 
     Shoalwater 10 To 60 Nm-Coastal Waters From Point Grenville 
     To Cape Shoalwater Out 10 Nm-Grays Harbor Bar.

     Small Craft Advisory until 8 AM PDT Wednesday for Central U.S. 
     Waters Strait Of Juan De Fuca-East Entrance U.S. Waters 
     Strait Of Juan De Fuca.

&&

$$
