669 
FXUS61 KCAR 262106
AFDCAR

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Caribou ME
506 PM EDT Wed Oct 26 2022

.SYNOPSIS...
Low pressure will lift north across the region tonight. A cold 
front crosses the region Thursday. High pressure will build 
across the region Friday through the weekend. Low pressure 
will approach Monday.
&&

.NEAR TERM /THROUGH THURSDAY/...
Have expanded the Flood Watch to include northeastern and
southeastern Aroostook county along with northern Penobscot 
county. Surface low pressure/upper level disturbance will lift
north across the region tonight. The system will draw abundant 
moisture north, with precipitable water values increasing to 
1.50 to 2.00 inches. Rain, heavy at times, will lift north 
across the region tonight. Could also have enough elevated 
instability to support isolated thunderstorms. The rain will 
then taper to showers, from south to north, overnight. Rain
totals tonight will generally range from 1 to 2 inches, with
locally greater totals also expected. The low will exit north 
toward Labrador Thursday, drawing a cold front across the 
region. Could have isolated/scattered showers with the cold 
front across mostly northern and central areas Thursday. Clouds
should then begin to decrease in the wake of the cold front 
later Thursday. Low temperatures tonight will range through the 
50s north, to the mid to upper 50s Downeast. High temperatures 
Thursday will range from the upper 50s to lower 60s north, to 
the mid to upper 60s Downeast, in advance of the cold front. 
Temperatures will then begin to fall in the wake of the cold 
front during the afternoon.
&&

.SHORT TERM /THURSDAY NIGHT THROUGH SATURDAY/...
Cold front will be well into the North Atlantic by Thu evening with 
1030mb sfc high located over the central Great Lakes. High pressure 
strengthens and builds east overnight with skies clearing. Twd 
daybreak may be able to see winds decouple acrs the northwest and 
have undercut guidance in this area and have gone toward the 25th 
percentile of the NBM with lows in the l/m 20s for Fri morning. 
Remainder of region should remain closer to NBM lows (around 
30) given winds remaining mixed over srn and ern zones. 

High pressure builds twd the southeast drg the day Friday with sunny 
skies expected. Upr lvl flow will remain zonal with little in the 
way of clouds expected until later in the evening as subtle s/wv 
moves thru acrs the north. H9 temps drop to below 0C for Friday's 
highs, yielding temps in the lwr 50s at most locations tho slightly 
colder acrs the mountains.  

Zonal flow continues Fri night before upr ridge begins to amplify 
acrs the area on Saturday.  Other than some passing high clouds late 
Fri night acrs the north very little wx to speak of. Highs on 
Saturday will be above normal, topping out in the m50s. 
&&

.LONG TERM /SATURDAY NIGHT THROUGH WEDNESDAY/...
At the end of the short term closed H5 low over the southern Plains 
begins to open up and eject twd the Northeast. Sunday will feature 
sunny skies and temps back up to around 60F for highs. Clouds begin 
to increase ahead of the next H5 trof Sun night. 

Discrepancies continue with 12Z EC keeping sfc high south of Nova 
Scotia with drier conditions over the area into Mon evening while 
GFS/CMC bring rain in by afternoon. Have gone with the NBM, which is 
more of a compromise soln, with chc pops for Downeast after 18z and 
spreading north from there into the evening hours. Given 
uncertainties hv capped pops at high chc Mon night into Tue morning. 
Near normal temps will continue into the middle of next week. 
&&

.AVIATION /21Z WEDNESDAY THROUGH MONDAY/...
NEAR TERM: MVFR/IFR, occasional LIFR/VLIFR, tonight. Rain  
tonight, possibly heavy at times with an isolated thunderstorm 
also possible. Rain then tapering to showers overnight. 
Patchy/areas of fog tonight. VFR/MVFR with isolated to 
scattered showers north, VFR Downeast, Thursday. Variable winds
around 10 knots, becoming southwest tonight. Southwest winds 10
to 15 knots, becoming northwest 15 to 25 knots with gusts up to
30 knots Thursday. South/southeast low level wind shear late 
this afternoon through the evening. 

SHORT TERM:
Thursday night...VFR. NW 5-15kts gusts 20-25kts in the evening. 

Friday-Sunday...VFR. WSW 5-15kts.
&&

.MARINE...
NEAR TERM: Winds/seas below small craft advisory levels tonight.
A Small Craft Advisory has been issued for Thursday. Rain, with 
isolated thunderstorms, early tonight then tapering to showers.
Areas of fog early tonight, then patchy late.

SHORT TERM: SCA for winds gusting to 25-30kts and seas 4-6 ft
will continue through late Fri morning. After this time expect 
conditions drop below SCA levels through the weekend. 
&&

.HYDROLOGY...
GOES-E continues to show an impressive deep layer plume of 
tropical moisture advancing north over the Gulf of Maine into 
Maine. PWATs approaching and likely exceeding record levels for
this date. Across Eastern and Northeastern Maine soil moisture 
remains well above normal for this date in the 90+ percentile. 
Small rivers and streams in the Flood Watch area are running 
above normal for today in the 75-90th percentile. Strong upper 
level dynamics will aid in the efficient producing of rainfall 
across the already wet antecedent conditions in place. A Flood 
Watch will continue for the potential of flooding on small 
rivers, creeks and streams in addition to urban flooding. Flash 
Flooding cannot be ruled out given the potential of rainfall 
rates of 1-1.5 inches per hour. One hour flash flood guidance is
low across the area generally 1-1.4 inches with 3 hour flash 
flood guidance of 1.5-2 inches. Given these trends including a 
push northeastward with heavy precip we opted to expand the 
Flood Watch to include portions of Aroostook and Northern 
Penobscot. 
&&

.CAR WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
ME...Flood Watch through late tonight for MEZ002-005-006-011-
     015>017-029-030-032.
MARINE...Small Craft Advisory from noon Thursday to 11 AM EDT Friday 
     for ANZ050>052.

&&

$$

Near Term...Norcross
Short Term...Buster
Long Term...Buster
Aviation...Norcross/Buster
Marine...Norcross/Buster
Hydrology...Sinko
