298 
FXUS61 KCAR 260155
AFDCAR

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Caribou ME
955 PM EDT Tue Oct 25 2022

.SYNOPSIS...
High pressure will prevail over the region tonight then move 
east on Wednesday. Low pressure will approach from the south 
later Wednesday, then lift across the region Wednesday night. A
cold front will cross the region Thursday. High pressure will 
build across the region Friday through the weekend.

&&

.NEAR TERM /THROUGH WEDNESDAY/...
940pm update...Anomalously warm and humid air mass remains over
the area, resulting in a veneer of low clouds, drizzle and fog 
over the area. Dense fog has spread inland from the coast. 
Issued a Dense Fog Advisory for southern Penobscot County as
well as interior Hancock and Washington counties through the 
night into the morning. Will be carefully evaluating expansion 
of this advisory northward as the evening progresses. Otherwise,
continuing to assess the heavy rain event for Wednesday 
afternoon/evening and have issued Flood Watch for Hancock and 
Washington counties where the highest PWATs and heaviest 
rainfall is most likely. This is the same region where elevated
instability has the highest probability.  The latest guidance 
continues to show the tropical disturbance in the open Atlantic 
moving due north towards the Downeast region by tomorrow 
evening. While it is a relatively fast-moving, progressive
feature, rainfall rates of a half-inch per hour...or even an
inch per hour, antecedent rainfall and low FFG numbers enhanced
confidence enough to issue the watch.

Previous discussion...
Surface and upper ridging from the Canadian Maritimes will 
remain in place across the region this evening and overnight. 
This will keep plenty of low level moisture beneath the 
subsidence inversion. Low stratus and fog will be the rule once
again tonight with the abundant low level moisture locked in 
place and a light onshore flow. Some breaks in the clouds were 
evident on satellite imagery across the North Maine Woods late 
this afternoon but expect this area to fill back in later this 
evening, with mainly cloudy skies expected regionwide. Abundant
low level moisture and cloud cover will keep tonight's lows 
from falling all that much, with lows only in the upper 50s to 
around 60 degrees.

A deep layered southerly flow develops on Wednesday in advance
of an upper level trof approaching from the west and surface 
low advancing northward toward the region from the Western 
Atlantic. This low will tap into abundant sub tropical moisture 
as it moves north toward the area Wednesday afternoon. Locally 
heavy rainfall will once again be a concern for portions of the 
area later Wednesday afternoon, as deeper moisture gets drawn 
into region in the moist southerly flow. Forecast soundings are 
showing deep warm cloud layers developing and precipitable 
water values increasing to 1.75" to 2.0". Considered a Flood 
Watch for portions of Downeast, as locally heavy rainfall will 
once again be possible, in addition to the locally heavy rain 
the area experienced last week. Also, localized convection last
night deposited in excess of 2.0'" of rain in a few spots in 
Washington County, with Robbinston reporting 2.44" and Cooper 
2.50". The one positive is that the system is forecast to be 
rather progressive. Nonetheless, will have to monitor the hydro 
situation closely on Wednesday. Highs Wednesday afternoon will 
once again be well above normal for the date, with temperatures 
Wednesday afternoon climbing into the low to mid 60s.

&&

.SHORT TERM /WEDNESDAY NIGHT THROUGH FRIDAY/...
Surface low pressure/upper level disturbance will lift north across 
the region Wednesday night. The system will draw abundant moisture 
north, with precipitable water values increasing to 1.50 to 
2.00 inches. Rain, possibly heavy at times, will lift north 
across the region Wednesday night. Could also have enough 
elevated instability to support the slight chance of a 
thunderstorm. The rain will then taper to showers, from south to
north, overnight. The low will exit north toward Labrador 
Thursday, drawing a cold front across the region. Could have a 
chance of showers with the cold front across mostly 
northern/central areas Thursday. Clouds should then begin to 
decrease in the wake of the cold front later Thursday. High 
pressure then builds across the region Thursday night into 
Friday with mostly clear skies. Temperatures will be at above 
normal levels in advance of the cold front Thursday. Near normal
level temperatures are expected in the wake of the cold front 
Friday.

&&

.LONG TERM /FRIDAY NIGHT THROUGH TUESDAY/...
High pressure will remain across the region Friday night through 
early Sunday, then begin to exit to the east later Sunday. 
Generally expect mostly clear skies Friday night into Sunday. 
High pressure exits across the Maritimes Monday, with low 
pressure starting to approach late. Clouds will increase Monday,
with a chance of rain or showers late in advance of the 
approaching low. Low pressure should then begin to cross the 
region Tuesday, though timing differences still exist, with a 
chance of rain or showers. Temperatures will be at above normal 
levels Saturday through Tuesday.

&&

.AVIATION /02Z WEDNESDAY THROUGH SUNDAY/...
NEAR TERM: High confidence in widespread IFR/LIFR tonight in low
clouds and fog. Widespread IFR/LIFR can be expected Wednesday 
morning in continued low clouds and fog. There could be some 
improvement toward high end IFR or low end MVFR early Wednesday
afternoon northern terminals, otherwise expect rain to develop 
at the Downeast terminals (KBGR/KBHB) early Wednesday afternoon 
and spread north toward the Aroostook county terminals later in
the afternoon. Rain could be locally heavy Wednesday afternoon 
and there could be an isolated thunderstorm as well. South to 
Southeast wind around 5 kts tonight and then 5 to 10 kt on 
Wednesday.

SHORT TERM: 
Wednesday night...IFR/LIFR with rain, possibly heavy at times,
then MVFR/IFR with rain tapering to showers late. Slight chance
of a thunderstorm. Areas of fog. Variable winds around 10 
knots, becoming southwest. Low level wind shear possible.

Thursday...VFR/MVFR with a chance of showers north. VFR/MVFR early, 
then VFR, Downeast with a slight chance of showers. Southwest winds 
10 to 15 knots, becoming northwest 15 to 20 knots with gusts up
to 25 knots.

Thursday night...VFR. Northwest winds 10 to 20 knots, diminishing to 
around 10 knots.

Friday...VFR. North/northwest winds 10 to 15 knots.

Friday night. Variable conditions with any patchy fog. Otherwise, 
VFR. Variable winds 5 to 10 knots. 

Saturday through Sunday...VFR. Southwest winds 10 to 20 knots 
Saturday. Variable winds 5 to 10 knots Saturday night/Sunday.

&&

.MARINE...
NEAR TERM: Winds/seas will remain below SCA levels through Wednesday
afternoon. Visibility will be reduced to 1 NM or less tonight 
and Wednesday morning in areas of fog, and then 1 to 3 NM in rain
and areas of fog Wednesday afternoon. An isolated thunderstorm 
will also, be possible on the waters as well. 

SHORT TERM: Winds/seas below small craft advisory levels Wednesday 
night through much of Thursday, though conditions could begin to
approach small craft advisory levels late Thursday. Small craft
advisory conditions likely Thursday night/Friday. Rain tapering
to showers Wednesday night. Slight chance of a thunderstorm 
early. Areas of fog Wednesday night.

&&

.CAR WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
ME...Dense Fog Advisory until 9 AM EDT Wednesday for MEZ015>017-029-
     030.
     Flood Watch from Wednesday afternoon through late Wednesday 
     night for MEZ016-017-029-030-032.
MARINE...None.

&&

$$

Near Term...TWD/MCW
Short Term...Norcross
Long Term...Norcross
Aviation...TWD/MCW/Norcross
Marine...TWD/MCW/Norcross
