155 
FXUS61 KCAR 261431
AFDCAR

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Caribou ME
1031 AM EDT Wed Oct 26 2022

.SYNOPSIS...
Low pressure approaches today, then lifts north across the 
region tonight. A cold front crosses the region Thursday.
High pressure builds in through Saturday night, then slides 
offshore on Sunday.
&&

.NEAR TERM /THROUGH TONIGHT/...
Update...
The Dense Fog Advisory is now in effect til noon. Otherwise, low
pressure will lift north to the Gulf of Maine later today. Rain
will expand north across the region through the afternoon. The 
rain could be heavy at times across central and Downeast areas 
this afternoon with an isolated thunderstorm also possible. High
temperatures will range from the lower to mid 60s north, to the
lower 60s Downeast. Have updated to adjust for current
conditions along with afternoon temperatures and rain chances. 

Previous Discussion...
This area of steady rnfl will then traverse nwrd to Nrn areas 
late Aftn and Eve before exiting NE of the FA late Wed Ngt. 
Models, spcly meso-models cont to trend heavy with the bullseye 
of heavier QPF with this system and flood watches have been 
xtnded from SE ME to the lower and mid Penobscot vly. Elevated 
CAPE with hvy rnfl MBEs could result in isold rumbles of thunder
this aftn and Eve.
&&

.SHORT TERM /THURSDAY THROUGH FRIDAY NIGHT/...
A passing 850 hPa cold front could bring some isolated to scattered 
showers across the North mainly during the morning on Thursday. A 
weak 700 hPa shortwave passes Thursday afternoon and a 500 hPa 
shortwave passes Thursday evening. However, dry low levels should 
allow for these two features to pass by dry.  With clear sky and 
slackening winds, especially over the North Woods, did go towards 
the cooler end of guidance to reflect the decent radiational cooling 
conditions developing late Thursday night there.

Highs Thursday should run around 10-15 degrees above normal, mainly 
in the 60s. Lows Thursday night should be near to slightly below 
normal, with readings from the mid 20s to the upper 30s, coldest 
across the North. 

The region is then under locally zonal flow Friday, with no 
shortwaves progged to be embedded in the flow, so it should be 
dry. A northern stream shortwave pushes into the region, but 
with dry low to mid levels it should remain dry. Highs on Friday
should be near normal and lows Friday night a few degrees below
normal.
&&

.LONG TERM /SATURDAY THROUGH TUESDAY/...
A northern stream shortwave trough exits Saturday morning, followed 
by deep layered ridging building over the region into Monday. It 
should be dry through at least Monday morning as a result, due to 
subsidence under the ridge.

The models then differ with respect to the timing and strength of 
the next system. The timing differences deal mainly with differences 
of when the aforementioned deep layered ridge slides offshore. This 
will determine exactly when any rain develop late Monday and how far 
into Tuesday it will actually last.

Temperatures should be above normal Saturday through Tuesday.
&&

.AVIATION /14Z WEDNESDAY THROUGH SUNDAY/...
NEAR TERM: MVFR/IFR, occasional LIFR/VLIFR, today through 
tonight. Rain this afternoon into tonight, possibly heavy at
times with an isolated thunderstorm also possible. Rain 
tapering to showers overnight. Patchy/areas of fog. Low level 
wind shear this afternoon into early evening. 

SHORT TERM: Thursday...Becoming VFR. SW winds G15-20KT possible
in the morning, then NW Winds G20-30KT possible in the 
afternoon.

Thursday night-Sunday...VFR. NW-N winds G20-25KT possible
Thursday evening.
&&

.MARINE...
NEAR TERM: Winds/seas below small craft advisory levels today
through tonight. Rain, with isolated thunderstorms through 
early tonight then tapering to showers overnight. Areas of fog 
today into tonight.

SHORT TERM: There is a low end chance that marginal SCA
conditions due to seas develop on the coastal ocean waters
Thursday. All waters should see gusts of 25-30KT Thursday night,
then diminish into Friday. Winds should be 10 kt or less and
seas 3 ft or less Friday night-Sunday, as a relaxed pressure
gradient sets up over the waters.
&&

.HYDROLOGY...
The consensus of models indicate heaviest rainfall amts of 1 to
2 inches with local 2 to 3 inches falling ovr Downeast, Cntrl,
and E Cntrl ptns of the FA beginning this Aftn and contg into 
the Eve. The area most prone to flooding within the flood watch
is ptns of coastal Hancock and Cntrl/Srn Washington counties
that experienced 1 to 2 inches of rnfl ystdy. Top end rnfl rates
with the heaviest meso elements may reach 0.50 to 0.75 inches
per hr, however the threat of flooding may be mitigated by the
speed of the best forcing of hvy rnfl from S to N across the FA,
which may lmt the tm of heaviest rnfl ovr any particular lctn.
&&

.CAR WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
ME...Flood Watch through late tonight for MEZ011-015>017-029-030-
     032.
     Dense Fog Advisory until noon EDT today for MEZ015>017-029-030.
MARINE...None.

&&

$$

Near Term...Norcross/VJN
Short Term...Maloit
Long Term...Maloit
Aviation...Norcross/VJN/Maloit
Marine...Norcross/Maloit
Hydrology...VJN
