622 
FXUS63 KFSD 260848
AFDFSD

AREA FORECAST DISCUSSION
National Weather Service Sioux Falls SD
348 AM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

.SHORT TERM...(Today and Tonight)
Issued at 348 AM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

Early morning satellite imagery doesn't have much to show as we are 
in between two trough axis, with one incoming from the west and 
the other moving off to our east. As a weak surface high slides 
across the region this morning, temperatures below freezing under 
clear skies and light winds will likely be enough for the warm 
water in the river valleys and lakes to create some localized fog 
prior to daybreak. The suite of models in the HREF are indicating 
this appears most likely for those in the James and Big Sioux 
River Valleys, especially north of the I-90 corridor. With 
visibilities under a mile possible, be sure to slow down to 
appropriate speeds if you encounter reduced visibilities.

Fog may be slow to mix out, but as the surface high drifts off to 
our east southerly return flow sets up and any remaining fog that 
isn't burned off by the sun should dissipate. Strongest surface 
pressure gradient sets up for areas well west of I-29, leading to 
breezy southerly winds gusting up into the lower 20s, with weaker 
winds as one travels eastwards. Coolest afternoon highs will thus be 
east of I-29 in the mid to upper 50s, getting a little warmer west 
of I-29 into the lower 60s. Given widespread dewpoints in the upper 
20s to lower 30s, relative humidity values today will dip down into 
the upper 20s to mid 30s. This will lead to another day with high 
fire danger for areas in central South Dakota, tapering off into the 
moderate category for locations east of I-29. 

As the western trough continues to dig throughout the afternoon, 
weak positive vorticity advection (PVA) along with warm air 
advection (WAA) will lead to scattered showers becoming possible 
by the late afternoon hours for those in central South Dakota. 
This first round of rain will be pushing northeastwards into the 
overnight period, with amounts generally expected to remain at or 
below a tenth of an inch by daybreak Thursday. Very little if any 
CAPE to work with, so don't be expecting much lightning with this 
rainfall. With breezy southerly winds remaining elevated 
overnight, temperatures will remain fairly mild in the upper 30s 
to lower 40s.

.LONG TERM...(Thursday through Tuesday)
Issued at 348 AM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

Chances for rainfall continue throughout the day on Thursday as the 
now cut-off upper level low spawns a surface low pressure system 
across southern Colorado, with the inverted trough extending 
northwards which will be acting as the main forcing. A slowly 
exiting upper level jet may help to assist throughout the morning 
hours, so have kept precipitation chances highest in the morning 
hours before trailing things off into the evening hours as the upper 
and surface low continue to drift southwards. HREF and the global 
ensembles continue to show support for areas west of I-29 and south 
of I-90 to receive up to around a third of an inch, with decreasing 
amounts moving away to the north and east. Southerly winds will 
remain breezy throughout the day with gusts up to 30 mph possible, 
though as the inverted trough shifts southwards into the evening 
hours winds will be allowed to decrease. Despite the dreary and wet 
day, WAA in the mid-levels will keep us only a couple degrees shy of 
our normals, with afternoon highs in the lower to upper 50s expected.

For the end of the week and into the weekend, the closed off upper 
level low will be slowly drifting eastwards before fizzling out on 
Sunday as the southern jet weakens on Sunday. For us this means 
southerly surface flow will be remain through Saturday, with a 
weak surface high coming down on Sunday swinging winds around to 
the north-northwest. Temperature wise this will lead to a warming 
trend into Saturday where highs will be in the lower to upper 60s,
becoming marginally cooler on Sunday in the upper 50s to mid 60s.


Zonal flow on Monday starts to become southwesterly as troughiness 
forms across the Pacific northwest on Tuesday.

&&

.AVIATION...(For the 06Z TAFS through 06Z Wednesday Night)
Issued at 1030 PM CDT Tue Oct 25 2022

Some model guidance late this evening continues to show some
fog/low stratus (likely MVFR to possibly IFR) potential 
overnight, mainly along the Big Sioux River north of I-90. Have 
continued to omit from any TAF site due to very low confidence,
but with light winds, could see some very patchy development along
rivers.

VFR conditions prevail otherwise through most of the period. Winds
increase and turn southerly through late Wednesday morning and
afternoon, with increasing clouds as well. Rain chances move in
through Wednesday evening, with some localized MVFR conditions in
heavier showers.


&&

.FSD WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
SD...None.
MN...None.
IA...None.
NE...None.
&&

$$

SHORT TERM...APT
LONG TERM...APT
AVIATION...SG
