592 
FXUS63 KFSD 261942
AFDFSD

AREA FORECAST DISCUSSION
National Weather Service Sioux Falls SD
242 PM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

.SHORT TERM...(This Evening through Thursday Evening) 
Issued at 241 PM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

Quiet conditions continue across the region, with latest 
observations showing mostly sunny skies and temperatures in the 50s 
to lower 60s. Though not entirely breezy, have seen a few southerly 
winds gust near 20 mph - which will remain possible through the 
afternoon. Otherwise, the main story this evening and Thursday 
revolves around rain chances returning to the forecast.

As alluded to in the previous discussion, will likely see light 
showers begin to develop west of the James River near sunset as a 
broad area of WAA lifts northeastward across the region. Unlike this 
weekend, do not see much in the way of instability with this wave, 
which should limit our chances for seeing lightning and 
thunderstorms. Rather, look for coverage to remain fairly scattered 
during the overnight period, with accumulations forecast to remain 
near/less than a tenth of an inch. Breezy southerly winds during 
this will keep lows on the milder side, as temperatures only fall 
into the low to mid 40s.

Should see coverage begin to pick up a bit by Thursday morning as an 
inverted trough nudges closer to our area. Thus, with the aid of WAA 
and an exiting upper level jet, have opted to keep the highest PoPs 
during the morning and early afternoon hours before gradually 
tapering off after sunset. Similar to the overnight period, not 
expecting much in the way of lightning given the lack of 
instability. Do think it's worth noting however, that winds will be 
a touch breezier than today, with southerly gusts up to 30 mph 
possible through the afternoon. In regard to accumulations, still 
not looking like a wash-out or drought buster by any means, as most 
locations will likely only see an additional tenth. That being said, 
model guidance has remained fairly consistent in showing a few 
locations along the MO River Valley approaching a third of an inch.
Otherwise, look for temperatures to remain near/slightly below 
seasonal norms throughout the day, as high rise into the 50s and 
lows fall into the mid to upper 30s.


.LONG TERM...(Friday through Wednesday) 
Issued at 241 PM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

Friday will be a quiet day across the Northern Plains as an upper 
low moves across the southern US, blocking any meaningful moisture 
from returning northward. 850 mb temperatures will warm to around 5-
9 degree C range, which is near to slightly above seasonal average. 
Mixing this to the surface will result in above average high 
temperatures in the 60s across the area. Winds at the top of the 
mixed layer of about 20 knots will mix down elevated winds to the 
surface. Despite the slight breeze, Friday will be a great day for 
outdoor activities given the above average temperatures and clear 
skies!

Quiet conditions look to persist through the weekend as both the 
northern and southern jet streams split the Northern Plains. The 
previously mentioned upper low will slowly meander across the 
southern US while the northern jet stream and associated jet streak 
stays along the international border. Deterministic guidance is in 
agreement that a weak wave will traverse the forecast area on 
Saturday, but with little to no moisture in place, Saturday should 
be dry. Ensembles are in agreement in high temperatures remaining in 
the 60s across the area. This wave will drag a cold front through 
the region Saturday night through Sunday morning but no rain is 
expected as the dry air will preclude any chance for precipitation. 
Northwest flow takes over in the wake of the front for Sunday, but 
ensembles remain in agreement in highs staying in the 60s, albeit a 
touch colder. 

Southerly flow returns to the region on Monday but should see dry 
conditions continue as any moisture return remains limited as 
onshore flow off of the Gulf of Mexico does not set up until late 
Monday afternoon. An upper wave looks to move into the west coast 
for the middle of next week but medium range guidance begins to 
diverge in the troughs location and evolution. WPC's ensemble 
clusters depict this uncertainty well as the GFS dominant cluster 
shows a more amplified trough while the Euro and Canadian dominant 
clusters keep the wave less amplified and weaker. Given this 
uncertainty, have not strayed from the NBM at this time. 


&&

.AVIATION...(For the 18Z TAFS through 18Z Thursday Afternoon)
Issued at 1228 PM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

VFR conditions are forecast to largely prevail this TAF cycle. 
Should see S/SW winds continue through the afternoon, with gusts up 
to 20 mph possible at times. Rain chances return this evening and 
look to continue for much of the day Thursday, causing cigs to 
gradually lower toward MVFR levels by the end of the period. 
Otherwise, look for winds to be a touch breezier tomorrow, with 
gusts up to 30 mph possible by Thursday afternoon.


&&

.FSD WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
SD...None.
MN...None.
IA...None.
NE...None.
&&

$$

SHORT TERM...SST
LONG TERM...Meyers
AVIATION...SST
