715 
FXUS63 KFSD 260340
AFDFSD

AREA FORECAST DISCUSSION
National Weather Service Sioux Falls SD
1040 PM CDT Tue Oct 25 2022

.SHORT TERM...(This Evening through Wednesday)
Issued at 242 PM CDT Tue Oct 25 2022

After peak daytime mixing brings some marginally gusty winds this 
afternoon the area should decouple with lighter winds and clear 
skies expected, especially after midnight. There is a little weak 
cold air advection in the low levels east of I-29 through the 
evening so may take a little longer for temperatures to drop, but 
surface high pressure will build into the area. Went ahead and 
leaned on lows closer to the 25th percentile given expected 
conditions as well as a dry ground.

Winds will slowly turn to the south as low pressure develops to the 
southeast. This will bring a fairly nice day with increasing 
temperatures and winds not too strong. Central parts of SD will see 
winds closer to 10 to 20 mph by afternoon, lighter east. Clouds will 
increase from southwest to northeast as a piece of energy swings 
northeast into NE. Model soundings support mixing to 800-850 mb so 
fairly mild. Moved temperatures up a few degrees, closer to the 75th 
percentile. Thermal and moisture advection increases by late 
afternoon which may be enough to support a little light rain. The 
better chances would be in south central SD as the low level air 
mass is still very dry and will take some time to saturate. Models 
not very agreeable on how quickly to saturate but soundings do seem 
to suggest better chances after sunset.

.LONG TERM...(Wednesday Night through Tuesday)
Issued at 242 PM CDT Tue Oct 25 2022

Wednesday night into Thursday the models continue to trend southward 
in cutting off the upper level low pressure. Expect an initial wave 
to shoot northeast Wednesday night with some light to potentially 
moderate rainfall. Overall any one location may only see a few hours 
of potential, with just a lingering lighter chance the remainder of 
the night. Leaned on the warm side of guidance with clouds and 
southerly flow, so mostly mid 40s for lows.

Thursday will see the low pressure begin to wrap up to the south 
with some backed flow and slightly enhanced forcing. By afternoon and 
evening the forcing will gradually weaken as the upper low drifts 
farther south and forcing and convergence weaken across the area. By 
the end of the system most locations should see less than a quarter 
of an inch but there may be a skinny band with amounts around a half 
an inch. Regardless, not enough to make much of a difference. Did 
lower highs a touch with expected cloud cover and precipitation.

Thursday night into Friday will see clouds clear from west to east, 
possibly a bit slower than forecast with southerly flow not 
advecting in much drier air. The air behind this cut off low is not 
any colder and in fact we should see a mild regime develop through 
next week with westerly flow filling in behind and the stronger jet 
to the north. Lows will generally in the lower 30s to lower 40s with 
highs upper 50s to mid 60s. Precipitation is not expected during 
this time.

&&

.AVIATION...(For the 06Z TAFS through 06Z Wednesday Night)
Issued at 1030 PM CDT Tue Oct 25 2022

Some model guidance late this evening continues to show some
fog/low stratus (likely MVFR to possibly IFR) potential 
overnight, mainly along the Big Sioux River north of I-90. Have 
continued to omit from any TAF site due to very low confidence,
but with light winds, could see some very patchy development along
rivers.

VFR conditions prevail otherwise through most of the period. Winds
increase and turn southerly through late Wednesday morning and
afternoon, with increasing clouds as well. Rain chances move in
through Wednesday evening, with some localized MVFR conditions in
heavier showers.

&&

.FSD WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
SD...None.
MN...None.
IA...None.
NE...None.
&&

$$

SHORT TERM...08
LONG TERM...08
AVIATION...SG
