647 
FXUS61 KGYX 261129
AFDGYX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Gray ME
729 AM EDT Wed Oct 26 2022

.SYNOPSIS...
Unsettled, warm, and at times foggy conditions prevail through 
tonight. Low pressure will move northward through the Gulf of
Maine today, potentially bringing heavy rainfall across portions
of the forecast area, especially in Maine. A cold front presses
across the area on Thursday, bringing cooler and drier 
conditions for the end of the week and the start of next 
weekend.

&&

.NEAR TERM /UNTIL 6 PM THIS EVENING/...
725 AM Update...Based on latest information showing stronger
coastal plain convergence today which will be juxtaposed with
PWATS of near 1.75 inches, have opted to expand the flood watch
southward on the coast plain as rainfall rates may end up being
higher than model forecasts. With a saturated ground and leaves
clogging storm drains, felt the extension of the flood watch was
prudent. Precipitation over southwestern NH has already 
produced around 1.00 in spots, but that area is expected to 
weaken or push westward this morning. However, it does bear 
watching.

The dense fog advisory remains in effect.

Previously...

The main forecast concerns today revolve around fog this morning
and the potential for heavy rains later this morning and
afternoon which could result in some flooding.

Visibilities in fog vary this morning in fog in the current
dense fog advisory, some at or below one quarter mile and some
well above 6 miles. At times, rain showers will move across
foggy areas and improve visibilities. Decided to keep the dense
fog advisory up for the time being, but may be able to cancel
some zones with the next update around 630 this morning.

As far as rainfall goes, weak tropical or subtropical low 
pressure system located about 300 miles north of Bermuda will 
quickly move northward today and into the Gulf of Maine this 
evening. Moisture associated with this system will likely get
pulled westward by an approaching amplified short wave trough
that will be moving into the eastern Great Lakes today. 

Most model guidance does produce one or two bands of heavy 
rainfall across our forecast area this afternoon. However, the 
bands in the CAMs have been quite narrow so it's been hard to 
pin down who will see the heaviest rain today and who won't see 
much. Took a consensus approach today based on the latest CAM 
output and also coordinated with WPC. The result was a flash 
flood watch for the Midcoast of Maine northward into portions of
central ME where the potential for the greatest rainfall rates 
appear to be. PWATS will soar to 1.75" or more. In addition many
towns have leaf-clogged storm drains right now, so flooding may
come easier than usual, especially with near saturated ground 
in several areas. Will continue to watch trends early this 
morning. If new data suggest a westward nudge in higher QPF, we 
may decide to bring the watch westward a smidge.

Not as concerned about large areas of excessive rain in NH with
this system. However, some guidance has been hinting at some
heavy shower banding today there as well. Will have to keep an
eye on this for any localized flooding issues that could come up
there, especially across the southern half.

Isolated thunder is not of the question today, and is in the
forecast at least for the Maine coastal plain today. Winds will
be light today.

&&

.SHORT TERM /6 PM THIS EVENING THROUGH 6 PM THURSDAY/...
Rain will end from SW to NE late this afternoon and evening,
with fog and drizzle likely remaining for the rest of the night.
A cold front moves through Thursday with much drier air moving
in during the afternoon. 20 to 30 MPH NWly wind gusts are likely
Thu afternoon. Temperatures will be warm, but then likely fall
as the afternoon progresses.

&&

.LONG TERM /THURSDAY NIGHT THROUGH TUESDAY/...
Overview: A cooler and drier regime takes over for the weekend 
as high pressure settles over the region. The next chance for 
widespread precipitation comes on the back side of the high as 
it exits between Monday and Tuesday. 

Details: Some of the cooler nights of the season thus far could
fall on Thursday and Friday night as cool air continues to pour
into the region via NW winds ahead of advancing high pressure. 
With mostly clear skies expected heading into Friday through the
weekend, would expect good conditions for radiational cooling. 
Thurs night may be the exception, leaning moreso on CAA, as 
winds in the BL keep mixing active in the low levels. Did adjust
below guidance in the valleys and more sheltered regions where 
wind may be lighter, but the winds in question may still be 
stirring aloft. Better chance at a strong rad cooling night 
would be Fri night where the high settles right overhead with 
calm winds arriving Fri afternoon. Daytime highs slowly recover 
through the period, becoming mild around 60 degrees as the high 
is slow to progress east. This is due to being between two 
stronger flows north across the southern tier of Canada, and 
south along the Mid-Atlantic and out to sea.

A shift of pattern does take shape into the beginning to mid-
week as a longwave pushes across the CONUS. Overall thinking 
support this combining with return flow from exiting high pres 
to result in greater moisture transport along the East Coast. 
GEFS and EPS ensemble means agree that PWATs surge during this 
time period, although the northward extent may heavily depend on
how a cut off low across the Southern Plains is handled in the 
medium range. Not so much a question of if, but magnitude. Early
solutions put PWATs close to 2 sigma above normal through the 
Northeast for the first day of November. As a result, did 
increase rain chances here, mainly across southern locations and
the coast through the day.

High pressure builds back in towards the middle of the week,
with drier conditions returning into Thursday.

&&

.AVIATION /12Z WEDNESDAY THROUGH SUNDAY/...
Short Term...IFR to LIFR conditions in fog, low clouds, and 
rain is expected today and tonight at most terminals. Only HIE
and LEB will escape it. A quick return to VFR is expected
Thursday morning. Westerly winds will gust around 25 kt in the
afternoon.

Long Term...VFR expected through Sunday. NW winds become light 
Friday afternoon. Some valley locations may see valley fog
develop after midnight and early morning Friday, most notably
KLEB.

&&

.MARINE...
Short Term...Winds/seas stay below SCA criteria through much of
tonight. However, areas of dense fog will remain over the 
waters at times. Winds and seas increase Thu in association with
a cold front. A SCA has been posted.

Long Term...SCA conditions continue Thurs night, with winds
slackening below criteria Friday. High pressure resides over the
region through the weekend, with return flow increasing for the
beginning of the week.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
A flash flood watch has been issued for Midcoast Maine northward
into portions of central ME for today. We are expecting that 1
to 2 inches of rain combined with already wet ground and leaf-
clogged storm drains will cause areas of flooding, especially
the urban variety. This could occur outside the flood watch area
too depending on if and where heavy bands of showers develop.

&&

.GYX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
ME...Flood Watch from noon EDT today through this evening for 
     MEZ014-021-022-025>028.
     Dense Fog Advisory until 10 AM EDT this morning for MEZ018>028.
     Flood Watch from 11 AM this morning to 7 PM EDT this evening 
     for MEZ018>020-023-024.
NH...Dense Fog Advisory until 10 AM EDT this morning for NHZ010-
     012>014.
     Flood Watch from 11 AM this morning to 7 PM EDT this evening 
     for NHZ010-013-014.
MARINE...Small Craft Advisory from 4 AM Thursday to 11 AM EDT Friday 
     for ANZ150-152-154.
     Small Craft Advisory from noon Thursday to midnight EDT 
     Thursday night for ANZ151-153.

&&

$$

NEAR TERM...Ekster
SHORT TERM...Ekster
LONG TERM...Cornwell
