822 
FXUS61 KGYX 262239
AFDGYX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Gray ME
639 PM EDT Wed Oct 26 2022

.SYNOPSIS...
Unsettled, warm, and at times foggy conditions prevail through 
tonight. Low pressure will move northward through the Gulf of
Maine through tonight, potentially bringing heavy rainfall 
across portions of the forecast area, especially the Maine
Midcoast. A cold front presses across the area on Thursday, 
bringing cooler and drier conditions for the end of the week and
through the weekend.

&&

.NEAR TERM /UNTIL 6 AM THURSDAY MORNING/...
Update...
Have updated the forecast based on latest mesoscale models and
radar imagery. Showers continue over the Penobscot River Valley
area per latest observations. Will continue with categorical
pops for this region for another hour or two before the solid
rain shield exits to the east. Otherwise, only a couple scattered
showers will continue to move through portions of New Hampshire
and western Maine during this evening.

Expect patchy fog to continue with high surface dew points over
the region with very muggy night underway. Have expanded the 
patchy fog to include the coastal waters. Otherwise, just minor 
edits to the near term portion of the forecast with 
temperatures, dew points and winds.

Prev Disc...
Heaviest rain associated with sfc low moving N through the Gulf
of ME is now mostly in ern zones. As the wave briefly 
intensifies into early evening, this band becomes the focus for 
some heavy rain late today, into early evening, so Flood Watch 
remains for this area, heaviest rain will be right around Pen 
Bay and points N, but may end up mostly to the east of the CWA, 
but all this should end by 00Z. To the west, could start seeing 
some breaks of sun in the CT vly before sunset, but otherwise 
look for low clouds to hold through the evening with fog 
redeveloping in many. %00 MB trough axis crosses the CWA around 
midnight to 06Z, so will start seeing some thinning of the fog 
in the pre-dawn in some areas, but any fog will quickly break up
after sunrise and W winds begin to pick up. Lows range from the
low 50s in the N and W to the upper 50s on the coast and in the
E.

&&

.SHORT TERM /6 AM THURSDAY MORNING THROUGH THURSDAY NIGHT/...
Thursday will see increasing W winds and clearing skies early.
W-NW winds will gust to 20-30 mph at times. Upslope clouds will
linger in the mtns, but should begin to diminish in the 
afternoon. Mainly sunny skies expected in srn NH and the coastal
plain of ME. Highs range from the mid 50s in the mtns to the 
mid to upper 60s on the coast and in srn NH. 

Winds will diminish Thu night, but light NW flow will persist in
all but the most sheltered areas. Lows range from the upper 20s
in the N to the upper 30s in the S.

&&

.LONG TERM /FRIDAY THROUGH WEDNESDAY/...
Broad high pressure will further build into the Northeast U.S. on 
Friday, eventually settling overhead Friday night and through the 
weekend. The very dry and subsident airmass provided by this high 
will give us a period of dry weather and generally sunny conditions 
through Saturday, although an upper jet will bring some high clouds 
on Friday. Sunday should start off mostly sunny, but we should start 
seeing an increase in cirrus later in the day well ahead of an upper 
trough moving toward the Great Lakes and Ohio Valley.

Friday will be the cooler of the days with highs in the mid 50s, and 
then temperatures will warm to the upper 50s Saturday and lower 60s 
for Sunday. Very dry air in place and light winds will bring good 
radiational cooling conditions at night as well and have undercut 
the NBM guidance for this reason. Low temperatures Friday night are 
expected to range from the mid 20s to lower 30s, except a few 
degrees warmer toward the immediate coast. 

The weather pattern turns more unsettled next week as the previously 
mentioned trough moves across the Great Lakes/Ohio Valley and toward 
the Northeast. After guidance seemingly trended drier yesterday, it 
has gone in the opposite direction with showing another anomalously 
moist airmass overspreading the region. So, not surprisingly, rain 
chances have followed the trend of the previous shift by being 
bumped up for Monday-Tuesday, but timing is still uncertain. The GFS 
has a more progressive upper air pattern and has an earlier onset 
and end to the precip while the ECWMF is slower with it now showing 
the low becoming cutoff. For now will show diminishing rain chances 
toward the middle of next week, but these will be need to raised if 
there is a consistent trend in the models for a slower progression 
of the trough.

&&

.AVIATION /00Z THURSDAY THROUGH MONDAY/...
Short Term...IFR-LIFR expected to return this evening to all but
KHIE/KLEB, which will be MVFR. Some improvement could occur late
tonight, but, unlike the last 2 days, conditions should quickly
improve to VFR after sunrise. S-SW wind gusts of 20-25 kt are
expected Thu afternoon. NW flow Thu night, should limit fog to
only the most sheltered areas, so it may be possible at
KHIE/KLEB. 

Long Term...Other than some possible valley fog at LEB, high 
pressure will bring primarily VFR conditions Friday through Sunday. 
As we get into early next week, moisture and rain chances will be on 
the increase as well as the potential for fog and low stratus.

&&

.MARINE...
Short Term...Winds and seas increase to SCA levels Thu in 
association with a cold front, and continue into Thursday
evening. 

Long Term...SCA conditions will linger into early Friday, but winds 
and seas will diminish through the day as high pressure settles over 
the region. High pressure will remain overhead through this 
weekend before sliding offshore early next week allowing winds to 
become more onshore. SCA conditions are not expected from late 
Friday into early next week.  However, once we get into early next 
week, showers and fog will be possible across the waters.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
A Flood Watch continues for the Maine Midcoast northward into 
portions of central ME through early this evening. Locally heavy
rainfall has fallen in the region. Expect another hour or so
over precipitation over the easternmost portions of our forecast
area before the precipitation exits the region.

&&

.GYX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
ME...Flood Watch until 9 PM EDT this evening for MEZ014-021-022-
     025>028.
NH...None.
MARINE...Small Craft Advisory from 4 AM Thursday to 11 AM EDT Friday 
     for ANZ150-152-154.
     Small Craft Advisory from noon Thursday to midnight EDT 
     Thursday night for ANZ151-153.

&&

$$
NEAR/SHORT TERM...Cannon
LONG TERM...Combs
