149 
FXUS65 KFGZ 260954
AFDFGZ

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Flagstaff AZ
254 AM MST Wed Oct 26 2022

.SYNOPSIS...Expect warmer temperatures through Wednesday, then a
bit cooler Thursday and warming back up again heading into next
weekend. Breezy southwest winds Wednesday turn northerly Thursday
and then decreasing into the weekend.

&&

.DISCUSSION...Today will be kind of a rinse and repeat from
yesterday. High temperatures should be a bit warmer than
yesterday, however, the high and low temperatures are still on the
cooler side from what we typically see this time of year. Models 
continue to be in exceptional agreement that the center of an area
of low pressure will move just to the east of the Four Corners 
region Thursday afternoon. This will kick up the winds with gusts 
up to 35 mph expected out of the north-northwest. Precipitation 
chances will be the greatest over the Four Corners region with 
thunderstorms and the potential for snow not being out of the 
question. Despite low forecasted instability, steep lapse rates 
and strong synoptic forcing could lead to an isolated chance for 
thunder.

Friday morning will start off colder than the previous two
mornings with retreating cloud cover associated with the
aforementioned low. High pressure builds in thereafter and will 
allow for dry conditions, warming temperatures and light winds 
lasting into early next week.

Depending on what happens up in Alaska could then determine what
happens next. Models are keying in on a strong Alaska storm 
moving down the Pacific coast, across southern California and 
into Arizona. If this plays out we could see colder temperatures,
widespread precipitation and gusty winds. Depending on what time
this happens would be the difference between precipitation falling
as widespread rain or snow- especially with our low temperatures
looking to stay around freezing. Stay tuned!

&&

.AVIATION...For the 12Z TAF cycle...VFR will prevail at all 
aerodromes w/ increasing W'ly breezes. Sustained speeds will average 
~15 knots w/ peak gusts ~25 knots. The probability of gusts over 30 
knots at any terminal is less than 10%. Gusty winds are forecast to 
subside after sunset, though some residual gusty breezes may persist 
at INW. Virga, turbulence, and FROPA are forecast just prior to 
daybreak Thursday at PGA.

&&

.FIRE WEATHER...Westerly winds of around 15 mph with gusts to near 
30 mph are forecast today and tonight. Higher wind gusts are 
possible downwind of some of the higher terrain features. A cold 
front will approach from the north tonight and into Thursday. This
will result in a northerly wind shift and a slight chance for 
precipitation across the Four Corners. A rumble of thunder or two 
cannot be discounted. 

Saturday through Monday...Lighter winds and dry conditions are 
forecast in the extended with a slight increase in both afternoon 
and overnight humidity values through early next week.

&&

.FGZ WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...NONE.

&&

$$

PUBLIC...Kobold
AVIATION...Bain
FIRE WEATHER...Bain

For Northern Arizona weather information visit
weather.gov/flagstaff
