176 
FXUS65 KFGZ 262038
AFDFGZ

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Flagstaff AZ
138 PM MST Wed Oct 26 2022

.SYNOPSIS...Cooler conditions return for Thursday with an incoming
disturbance clipping the Four Corners. High pressure will build
back up over the region this weekend, resulting in calmer weather
conditions. Another low pressure system is expected to impact 
Arizona toward the beginning of next week.

&&

.DISCUSSION...Today has been another day of fair weather across
central and northern Arizona. Temperatures currently (1:30 PM 
MST) ranging from 50s and 60s for most of our CWA. Occasional 
breezes out of the southwest will continue throughout the 
remainder of the afternoon hours, with winds calming overnight. 
Tomorrow (Thursday), a weather disturbance is going to dip down 
across the Four Corners region. This will result in gusty north- 
northwest winds (15-25 mph), and chances for precipitation. 
Coverage for rainfall declines rapidly as you move southwest from 
the northeastern portion of the state. Along with the wind/rain 
impacts, cooler temperatures will be noted for most of the high 
country. 

Friday through the weekend...High pressure will begin to build
back up over the Southwest. This weather pattern will lead to
calmer winds, and a slight warming/drying trend. Mostly sunny
skies will dominate the weekend, so enjoy the Fall-like weather! 

Next week...An uncertain weather pattern will influence Arizona
around Tuesday of next week. GFS guidance is leaning towards a
strong trough moving in from the Pacific Coast, and potentially 
leading to widespread rain/snowfall, gusty winds, and colder 
temperatures. The ECMWF guidance is also showing a trough 
influencing the region, but has this system being more elongated 
to our north. This second guidance could result in similar 
impacts but to a lesser extent. There is still time to grow our 
confidence as models hopefully begin to agree with one another 
getting closer to next week. Stay tuned for updates!


&&

.AVIATION...For the 00Z TAFs....Look for increasing mid/high clouds 
through the period under primarily VFR conditions. A few 
SHRA/SHSN are possible along and northeast of a KPGA - KRQE line 
between 06Z - 18Z Thurs, which could produce local MVFR. 

Breezy W to SW winds through early this evening at 10-15 kts gusting 
20-25 kts. Some gusty winds will continue overnight downwind of high 
terrain features. Winds shifting to the north as a cold front moves 
through the area after 06Z Thurs. Breezy northerly winds 10-20 kts 
with gusts from 20-25 kts through Thurs afternoon.

&&

.FIRE WEATHER...Breezy west to southwest winds continue today with 
gusts up to around 25 mph. A cool front will move through the area 
tonight through Thursday, shifting winds to the north and bringing 
cooler daytime temperatures Thursday. Winds will remain breezy from 
the north on Thursday. Mild weather with lighter winds for Friday.  

Saturday through Monday...Lighter winds and dry conditions are 
forecast through the weekend with temperatures running near
normal.

&&

.FGZ WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...NONE.

&&

$$

PUBLIC...Swenson
AVIATION...MCT
FIRE WEATHER...MCT

For Northern Arizona weather information visit
weather.gov/flagstaff
