634 
FXUS65 KFGZ 261605
AFDFGZ

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Flagstaff AZ
905 AM MST Wed Oct 26 2022

.SYNOPSIS...Expect warmer temperatures today, then a bit cooler 
Thursday and warming back up again heading into next weekend. 
Breezy southwest winds Wednesday turn northerly Thursday and then 
decreasing into the weekend.

&&

.UPDATE...Another chilly morning started this Wednesday off for 
many areas across the high country. These early morning near/below
freezing temperatures will be sticking around for awhile, so stay
mindful of that! At least the sun is out and temperatures will 
slowly increase throughout the day. As mentioned in the previous 
discussion (found below), breezy winds out of the southwest will 
be likely this afternoon. Aside from this, weather conditions will
be extremely similar to what we've seen previously this week. No 
updates were made to the overnight forecast package, as weather 
conditions remain largely on track. 

&&

.PREV DISCUSSION /254 AM MST/...Today will be kind of a rinse and
repeat from yesterday. High temperatures should be a bit warmer
than yesterday, however, the high and low temperatures are still
on the cooler side from what we typically see this time of year.
Models continue to be in exceptional agreement that the center of
an area of low pressure will move just to the east of the Four
Corners region Thursday afternoon. This will kick up the winds
with gusts up to 35 mph expected out of the north-northwest.
Precipitation chances will be the greatest over the Four Corners
region with thunderstorms and the potential for snow not being
out of the question. Despite low forecasted instability, steep
lapse rates and strong synoptic forcing could lead to an isolated
chance for thunder.

Friday morning will start off colder than the previous two
mornings with retreating cloud cover associated with the
aforementioned low. High pressure builds in thereafter and will
allow for dry conditions, warming temperatures and light winds
lasting into early next week.

Depending on what happens up in Alaska could then determine what
happens next. Models are keying in on a strong Alaska storm
moving down the Pacific coast, across southern California and
into Arizona. If this plays out we could see colder temperatures,
widespread precipitation and gusty winds. Depending on what time
this happens would be the difference between precipitation falling
as widespread rain or snow- especially with our low temperatures
looking to stay around freezing. Stay tuned!

&&

.AVIATION...For the 18Z TAF cycle....Mostly clear skies this morning 
will give way to increasing mid/high clouds later this afternoon and 
overnight. Primarily VFR conditions are expected through the period, 
but a few SHRA/SHSN are possible along and northeast of a KPGA - 
KRQE line after 06Z which could produce local MVFR. 

Breezy W to SW winds today at 10-15 kts gusting 20-25 kts. Some 
gusty winds will continue overnight downwind of high terrain 
features. Winds shifting to the north across far northern AZ after 

&&

.FIRE WEATHER...Westerly winds of around 15 mph with gusts to near 
30 mph are forecast today and tonight. Higher wind gusts are 
possible downwind of some of the higher terrain features tonight. A 
cold front will approach from the north tonight and into Thursday. 
This will result in a northerly wind shift and a slight chance for 
precipitation across the Four Corners. A rumble of thunder or two 
cannot be discounted.  

Friday through Sunday...Lighter winds and dry conditions are 
forecast in the extended with a slight increase in both afternoon 
and overnight humidity values through early next week.

&&

.FGZ WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...NONE.

&&

$$

PUBLIC...Swenson/Kobold
AVIATION...MCT
FIRE WEATHER...MCT

For Northern Arizona weather information visit
weather.gov/flagstaff
