301 
FXUS63 KLBF 260527
AFDLBF

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service North Platte NE
1227 AM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

...UPDATE FOR AVIATION...

.SHORT TERM...(This evening through Thursday night)
Issued at 229 PM CDT Tue Oct 25 2022

Key Messages: 

- Tranquil conditions with temperatures at or just below normal will 
continue through tonight.

- Next chance for precipitation across the area is Wednesday through 
Thursday evening.

Currently, an upper level trough is situated across northern 
Manitoba extending south across the Upper Midwest. South of this 
feature, an upper level low pressure system is centered over the 
south-central CONUS. Near zonal flow aloft persists across the High 
Plains into the PNW region. At the surface, high pressure overhead 
has lead to mostly clear skies and tranquil conditions across 
western and north central Nebraska today.

A rather quiet night is in store for the region as high pressure 
continues through tonight. Clouds will increase through the 
overnight hours across western and southwestern portions of the 
forecast area, leading to slightly warmer temperatures ranging from 
30 to 35 degrees. Clear skies are expected over the Sandhills and 
north central Nebraska and will lead to good radiational cooling 
with temperatures falling into the 20s. These low temperatures are 
at or just below the climatological normal for the end of October.

On Wednesday, an upper level trough will form across the upper PNW 
tracking into the Idaho Panhandle. Some model guidance hints at the 
potential for precipitation across the forecast area as early as 
late Wednesday morning through Wednesday evening. This is in advance 
of the approaching disturbance which is downstream of the main upper 
level trough. The deterministic model guidance suggests that mid-
level warm air advection combined with mid-level frontogenetical 
forcing will push through the forecast area Wednesday morning into 
the afternoon. This may lead to enough lift to produce very light 
showers across the Sandhills into portions of north central 
Nebraska. A point of uncertainty with this potential is that some 
difference exists between models in respect to the low level 
saturation and associated QPF. Have decided to introduce limited 
PoPs at generally around 20% for Wednesday afternoon. If anything 
does develop, precipitation accumulations will remain limited at 
less than maybe a few hundreths of an inch. 

As the aforementioned upper level trough digs south into the 
Southern Rockies and tracks into the Southern Plains, cyclogenesis 
creates an associated surface low pressure in the same location. An 
inverted surface trough will extend northeastward which will 
introduce continued precipitation chances across portions of the 
forecast area. Model guidance suggests another band of mid-level 
frontogenetical forcing and mid-level temperature advection to push 
across the forecast area. Additionally, the flow aloft transitioning 
to south-southwesterly across the Plains will aid in moisture 
advection across the forecast area. All of this combined leads to a 
chance of light rainfall Wednesday night through Thursday evening. 
Confidence wanes some in the precipitation potential as a whole due 
to trends pointing at this system having rather limited moisture 
which limits the overall precipitation potential. While nearly the 
entire forecast area could see some light rain, the best chance for 
any rainfall is east of North Platte through Ainsworth line where 
the most favorable moisture exists. QPF remains rather limited 
though with amounts less than a quarter of an inch. Precipitation 
will be quick to exit the region Thursday evening as the upper level 
low tracks east across Texas and Oklahoma. 

.LONG TERM...(Friday through Tuesday)
Issued at 229 PM CDT Tue Oct 25 2022

Quiet and dry conditions are expected this weekend into early 
next week with temperatures gradually warming to above normal. 
High temperatures will range from the high 50s to around 70 
degrees through the early part of next week. These temperatures 
are 5 to 10 degrees above the climatological normal for the end of
October. This forecast is in agreement with the latest CPC 6-10 
Temperature Outlook which favors above normal temperatures through
the period. 

&&

.AVIATION...(For the 06Z TAFS through 06Z Wednesday night)
Issued at 1224 AM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

VFR is expected through Wednesday night for western and north
central Nebraska terminals. A couple aviation weather concerns
exist, however. South/southeast winds strengthen midday with gusts
around 20 kts. Cloud cover will also increase and ceilings will
gradually lower, with scattered rain showers developing in the
evening. The greatest potential comes across the north (KVTN)
through 27/06z. 

&&

.LBF WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
NONE.
&&

$$

SHORT TERM...Viken
LONG TERM...Viken
AVIATION...Snively
