545 
FXUS63 KLBF 261729
AFDLBF

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service North Platte NE
1229 PM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

.SHORT TERM...(Today through Thursday)
Issued at 400 AM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

A mostly quiet Wednesday is expected before more active weather 
arrives Wednesday night and into Thursday. High pressure will slowly 
drift eastward today giving way to an upper level trough to dig 
south across the central Plains by the evening. This trough will 
bring some isolated chances of precipitation to western and north 
central Nebraska. Despite temperatures dropping overnight tonight, 
the current expectations is that all precipitation will remain 
liquid as boundary layer and surface temperatures stay above 
freezing. Any previous mentions of rain/snow mix or all snow have 
been taken out of the forecast during this issuance. While all of 
north central Nebraska could see some light rain, the best chance 
for any rainfall will be on Thursday and generally east of US-183. 
Here, up to a quarter inch (0.25 inches) of QPF is forecasted with 
the greatest amounts further east. The trough, and any 
precipitation, quickly pushes east with a return to dry conditions 
by Thursday evening as high pressure builds in behind the departing 
system.

.LONG TERM...(Thursday night through Tuesday)
Issued at 400 AM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

A strong upper level low develops across the souther Plains keeping 
Nebraska in zonal flow through the weekend. Dry and cool conditions 
will result with temperatures remaining near normal (low to mid 60s) 
overnight lows dropping into the upper 20s to low 30s. 

The dry conditions continue through mid week as high pressure 
returns to the region keeping any weather systems out of the region. 
There's a low chance of the next weather system finally developing 
late next week which may bring some much needed precipitation. At 
this time, timing, strength, and precipitation type is uncertain. 
Model consistency at this stage is very low with some not even 
showing this system at all with others bringing it in as all snow or 
all rain. Details will become more clear as the environment gets 
sampled over the next several days. 

&&

.AVIATION...(For the 18Z TAFS through 18Z Thursday afternoon)
Issued at 1229 PM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

Skies will be mostly cloudy across the area over the next 24
hours. Ceilings will range from 7000 to 12000 FT AGL as abundant
mid and high clouds travel across western and north central
Nebraska. Light rain showers will be possible this afternoon into
the early evening hours, and again overnight tonight into Thursday
morning. INVOF showers, ceilings will fall off to 4000 to 6000 FT
AGL. Most rainfall will not reach the surface, given the dry
boundary layer, so there will be no visibility restrictions in
this forecast. The threat for rainfall will end around midday
Thursday with clouds lingering into the afternoon hours Thursday. 

&&

.LBF WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
NONE.
&&

$$

SHORT TERM...Kulik
LONG TERM...Kulik
AVIATION...Buttler
