513 
FXUS63 KLBF 262353
AFDLBF

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service North Platte NE
653 PM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

...00Z AVIATION UPDATE...

.SHORT TERM...(This evening through Thursday night)
Issued at 253 PM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

Main concerns in the short term:
 
-Precipitation chances for tonight and Thursday

Did lower pops across western Nebraska for the remainder of this 
afternoon. Although radar has been showing returns for many 
locations across western Nebraska and the Sandhills, dry air in the 
boundary layer has been inhibiting perception from reaching the 
ground all day. Mostly virga is expected for this afternoon, maybe
a few sprinkles, but nothing significant. Looking at 
probabilistic models for this evening into tomorrow, precipitation
probabilities increase, leading to higher confidence in 
measurable rainfall tonight into Thursday. That being said, do not
expect a widespread rainfall as the precipitation mode is mostly 
a showery type of rain falling. The other caveat, for areas that 
do receive rainfall, exactly how much rain will make it to the 
ground as cigs are still expected to be fairly high, with rain 
falling into a dry lower layer. The hope is that there will be 
some saturation by overnight and rain potential will be better. 

Overnight through Thursday mid-day rain chances look better for 
areas generally east of a line from Sparks to Elsmere to Arnold. QPF 
values from 0.10 to 0.25 of in inch will be possible, with the 
highest QPF values falling generally across eastern Boyd, Holt and 
Wheeler counties. Precipitation begins to diminish by afternoon so 
did lower pop chances after 18z. As for precipitation type in the 
overnight hours, there is low probabilities for precipitation to 
fall as snow, and temperatures will remain mostly above freezing 
where precipitation is falling, thus leading to high confidence 
all precipitation will fall as rain. 

.LONG TERM...(Friday through Wednesday)
Issued at 253 PM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

Weather Highlights:

1) Mostly seasonable temperatures expected through the 
weekend

2) Mainly dry through the long term forecast

3) Warmest days - Monday and Tuesday

An upper level closed low will move across the Rockies into the 
south central US keeping the High Plains in a quasi-zonal flow 
keeping mild temperatures Friday through Sunday with highs in the 
upper 50s to low 60s. A shortwave moves through Sunday night, 
however no precipitation is expected with the passage. Weak ridging 
on Monday and Tuesday will give temperatures a slight boost with 
highs into the upper 60s, maybe a few 70s, across southwest 
Nebraska.

&&

.AVIATION...(For the 00Z TAFS through 00Z Thursday evening)
Issued at 649 PM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

Aviation concerns focus on continued cloudiness and precipitation
chances over the next twelve hours. Starting to see the break
between rounds of -RA encompass much of western Nebraska. This
should fill in by late evening as another disturbance leads to
expanding coverage in time. Even so, low-level dry air may never
completely erode and thus limits confidence in how much rain
actually impacts terminals. Will cover the higher confidence
periods with vicinity mention and tempo group for now. Lower CIGs
will redevelop Thursday morning, with the bulk of the daytime
expected to see ceilings below 10kft AGL before improving by late
in the period.

&&

.LBF WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
NONE.
&&

$$

SHORT TERM...Gomez
LONG TERM...Gomez
AVIATION...NMJ
