869 
FXUS63 KLBF 261954
AFDLBF

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service North Platte NE
254 PM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022


.SHORT TERM...(This evening through Thursday night)
Issued at 253 PM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

Main concerns in the short term:
 
-Precipitation chances for tonight and Thursday

Did lower pops across western Nebraska for the remainder of this 
afternoon. Although radar has been showing returns for many 
locations across western Nebraska and the Sandhills, dry air in the 
boundary layer has been inhibiting perception from reaching the 
ground all day. Mostly virga is expected for this afternoon, maybe
a few sprinkles, but nothing significant. Looking at 
probabilistic models for this evening into tomorrow, precipitation
probabilities increase, leading to higher confidence in 
measurable rainfall tonight into Thursday. That being said, do not
expect a widespread rainfall as the precipitation mode is mostly 
a showery type of rain falling. The other caveat, for areas that 
do receive rainfall, exactly how much rain will make it to the 
ground as cigs are still expected to be fairly high, with rain 
falling into a dry lower layer. The hope is that there will be 
some saturation by overnight and rain potential will be better. 

Overnight through Thursday mid-day rain chances look better for 
areas generally east of a line from Sparks to Elsmere to Arnold. QPF 
values from 0.10 to 0.25 of in inch will be possible, with the 
highest QPF values falling generally across eastern Boyd, Holt and 
Wheeler counties. Precipitation begins to diminish by afternoon so 
did lower pop chances after 18z. As for precipitation type in the 
overnight hours, there is low probabilities for precipitation to 
fall as snow, and temperatures will remain mostly above freezing 
where precipitation is falling, thus leading to high confidence 
all precipitation will fall as rain. 

.LONG TERM...(Friday through Wednesday)
Issued at 253 PM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

Weather Highlights:

1) Mostly seasonable temperatures expected through the 
weekend

2) Mainly dry through the long term forecast

3) Warmest days - Monday and Tuesday

An upper level closed low will move across the Rockies into the 
south central US keeping the High Plains in a quasi-zonal flow 
keeping mild temperatures Friday through Sunday with highs in the 
upper 50s to low 60s. A shortwave moves through Sunday night, 
however no precipitation is expected with the passage. Weak ridging 
on Monday and Tuesday will give temperatures a slight boost with 
highs into the upper 60s, maybe a few 70s, across southwest 
Nebraska.

&&

.AVIATION...(For the 18Z TAFS through 18Z Thursday afternoon)
Issued at 1229 PM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

Skies will be mostly cloudy across the area over the next 24
hours. Ceilings will range from 7000 to 12000 FT AGL as abundant
mid and high clouds travel across western and north central
Nebraska. Light rain showers will be possible this afternoon into
the early evening hours, and again overnight tonight into Thursday
morning. INVOF showers, ceilings will fall off to 4000 to 6000 FT
AGL. Most rainfall will not reach the surface, given the dry
boundary layer, so there will be no visibility restrictions in
this forecast. The threat for rainfall will end around midday
Thursday with clouds lingering into the afternoon hours Thursday. 


&&

.LBF WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
NONE.
&&

$$

SHORT TERM...Gomez
LONG TERM...Gomez
AVIATION...Buttler
