890 
FXUS64 KHGX 260452
AFDHGX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Houston/Galveston TX
1152 PM CDT Tue Oct 25 2022

...New AVIATION...

.SHORT TERM...
(This evening through Wednesday Night)
Issued at 343 PM CDT Tue Oct 25 2022

Cooler and drier conditions along with clear skies will prevail in 
the wake of last night's frontal passage in the immediate term. 
Behind the departing boundary, surface high pressure continues to 
push into the region. This will result in gradually diminishing 
winds through the remainder of the afternoon and into the evening, 
with winds eventually becoming lighter and variable overnight. Clear 
conditions along with persistent CAA will pave the way for efficient 
cooling overnight. As such, have generally sided with the lower end 
of guidance for lows tonight with most inland locations seeing 
the 40s to near 50. Dew points will continue to sit in the 40s, 
keeping things feeling generally pleasant.

Surface high pressure will continue its eastward trajectory 
tomorrow, resulting in an eastward wind shift by mid-morning. The 
subsequent loss of CAA will result in slightly higher maximum 
temperatures tomorrow afternoon. That being said, temperatures 
should still remain confined to the upper 70s with dew points 
remaining comfortably in the 40s. Further eastward motion of high 
pressure will being about a further shift towards onshore winds 
overnight tomorrow, though increases in low temperature will only be 
marginal at first with values around 2-4 degrees higher than this 
evening's.

Cady

&&

.LONG TERM...
(Thursday through next Monday)
Issued at 343 PM CDT Tue Oct 25 2022

Return flow from the departing high pressure centered over the 
eastern CONUS will provide increasing low-level moisture and 
slightly warmer conditions into the region by Thursday. Highs from 
the upper 70s to low 80s can be expected. A coastal sfc low/inverted 
trough is progged to develop over Deep TX/Middle TX coast Thursday 
night into Friday. This system will help to bring in even more 
moisture; thus isolated to scattered showers will be possible in the 
evening and overnight. With drier air still persisting at mid 
levels, the best rain chances will be south of I-10. Showers and 
storms become likely early Friday as an upper-level trough digs into 
the Southern Plains and drags its associated cold front into 
Southeast TX. The frontal boundary will reach the Brazos Valley area 
early Friday, moving through the remainder of the region during the 
day. Forecast soundings suggest an uptick in moisture ahead of this 
system with PWAT values into the 1.5-1.8 inch range by Friday. 
Moisture coupled with surface convergence and increasing PVA will 
lead to scattered showers and thunderstorms as the front moves in. 
The severe weather potential will strongly depend on timing/speed of 
the FROPA. As of now, instability is limited, but the passage of a 
south-north LLJ along the boundary could support an isolated or two 
strong to severe storms. As of now, the main-takeaway is that Friday 
will be the wettest day of the medium range. Given model agreements, 
have increased PoPs around with 50-70 percent.  

The remainder of the forecast, from Saturday on through Monday will 
feature dry conditions and cooler than average temperatures as a 
ridge builds in. A gradual warming trend is anticipated after 
Tuesday as return/southerly flow from the departing sfc high brings 
in warmer conditions with highs mainly in the 80s. 05

&&

.AVIATION...
(06Z TAF Issuance)
Issued at 1146 PM CDT Tue Oct 25 2022

VFR conditions expected throughout the TAF period. Light and VRB
winds tonight, staying light but turning E Wed morning and then E-SE
in the afternoon as sfc high pressure moves SE. 

24 

&&

.MARINE...
Issued at 343 PM CDT Tue Oct 25 2022

North winds will continue to weaken late this afternoon/early 
evening as pressure gradient from the departing low pressure system 
relaxes. Seas will gradually subside to 2-4 ft through this evening. 
Otherwise, light to moderate onshore flow will resume by Wednesday 
night and will persist through early Friday with the arrival of the 
next cold front. The front should reach the coastal waters by Friday 
afternoon, resulting gusty winds, elevated seas and rain/storm 
chances in its wake. Surface high builds in after the frontal 
passage and will persist through the upcoming week. 

&&

.PRELIMINARY POINT TEMPS/POPS...
College Station (CLL)	  45  77  48  79 /   0   0   0   0 
Houston (IAH)			  48  77  49  79 /   0   0   0   0 
Galveston (GLS)			  61  73  64  76 /   0   0   0   0 

&&

.HGX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
TX...None.
GM...None.
&&

$$

SHORT TERM...12
LONG TERM....05
AVIATION...41
