038 
FXUS64 KHGX 262009
AFDHGX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Houston/Galveston TX
309 PM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

...New SHORT TERM, LONG TERM, MARINE...

.SHORT TERM...
(This evening through Thursday Night)
Issued at 201 PM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

Today has shaped up to be a fantastic fall day as high pressure 
keeps the sky clear with afternoon temperatures in the low/mid 
70s and dew points in the 30s. The clear skies and light winds 
will lead to a chilly night tonight with lows in the low to mid 
40s north of I-10, then upper 40s to low 50s along the coast. The
high pressure will slide to the east for tomorrow inducing a 
southeasterly flow across the area bringing temperatures and 
moisture levels up. High temperatures on Thursday will be in the 
upper 70s to low 80s with PWATs climbing back over an inch. Skies 
for majority of the area will remain mostly sunny tomorrow, but 
expect increasing clouds through evening into overnight hours as 
that moist air creeps into the region. 

While we are enjoying the great weather today, an upper level low is 
moving through the Pacific Northwest and this low will be diving 
down into the Southern Plains through the day on Thursday. As this 
low approaches the area late Thursday, isolated to scattered showers 
will begin to pop up across the southwestern portion of the region 
(mainly the counties surrounding Matagorda Bay) and along the coast 
late Thursday night into Friday morning. More information on this 
system is below in the long term discussion.

Fowler

&&

.LONG TERM...
(Friday through next Tuesday)
Issued at 201 PM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

The aforementioned upper level low will be digging down through 
Texas on Friday bringing our best chance of rain through the next 
week. Expect to see some streamer showers with embedded
thunderstorms popping up across the area Friday morning with the 
chance for thunderstorms increasing through the late morning into 
the afternoon with the increase in daytime heating. As that upper 
level low digs further down into Texas on Friday, a surface low 
may begin to develop along the Texas coastline - this could keep 
the majority of the precipitation along and off the coast on 
Friday. However, with PWATS climbing to 1.8" and good upper level 
support for storm development, thunderstorms are possible anywhere
across the area on Friday. Some of these storms, especially in 
the late morning, will have the chance at becoming strong to 
severe storms with all severe weather hazards possible with
strong, gusty winds being the main concern. Because of this, the 
SPC has placed most of SE Texas in a Marginal Risk on Friday. The 
cold front associated with the upper level low will swing through 
Friday evening bringing an increase chance of more widespread 
showers and thunderstorms. With the high PWATs, locally heavy 
rainfall is possible in the afternoon, prefrontal storms and with
the storms along the front itself. WPC has placed the area in a 
Marginal Risk for Excessive Rainfall, but with how dry we have 
been I am not expecting much a flooding risk in the rural areas. 
However, urban and low lying areas may get some minor flooding and
street ponding. So, if you are planning on going into Downtown 
Houston Friday evening, make sure to plan accordingly. Once the 
front pushes through late Friday, the chance of precipitation 
rapidly falls for most of the area. Isolated light showers may 
linger across the northern third of the region into dawn hours of 
Saturday morning as some wrap around moisture interacts with the 
slow to depart upper level low. Temperatures on Friday will be in 
the low to mid 70s with lows Friday night in the low to mid 50s. 

High pressure builds in the wake of the low bringing us dry and cool 
to seasonal conditions through at least Tuesday. High temperatures 
over the weekend upper 60s to low 70s with overnight lows in the 
upper 40s to low 50s. South to southeasterly flow returns for the 
start of next week increasing highs into the mid to upper 70s on 
Monday and then to near 80 on Tuesday. PWATs begin to climb again on 
Tuesday to the 1.6 to 1.8" range bringing back a chance for 
precipitation for the coastal regions.

The weather Halloween night (Monday) looks to be more treat than 
trick with temperatures in the low to mid 70s through 7pm with 
light winds and no chance for precipitation.

Fowler

&&

.AVIATION...
(18Z TAF Issuance)
Issued at 1147 AM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

VFR conditions are expected through the period. Easterly flow will
persist through this afternoon between 5 to 10 knots, then light/variable
winds after sunset, then southeasterly flow beginning tomorrow morning
increasing to around 8 to 12 knots in the afternoon. 

Fowler

&&

.MARINE...
Issued at 201 PM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022


Onshore flow will persist through Thursday at 5 to 10 knots 
increasing to 15 knots on Friday ahead of the approaching front. 
Wave heights will be between 2 to 3 feet through Thursday, 
increasing to 4 to 6 feet on Friday. A coastal low will be 
developing on Friday bringing scattered showers and thunderstorms 
which may lead to isolated higher wind speeds and seas. Caution 
flags may be needed on Friday due to the increasing onshore flow and 
seas. A cold front will move through the waters late Friday ushering 
in a northwesterly flow that continues through the weekend. The 
winds Saturday morning will be approaching Small Craft Advisory 
levels with gusts to 25 knots bringing wave heights to near 6 to 7 
feet. Conditions improve to near Caution by Saturday night and below 
Caution by Sunday morning. The strong offshore flow may lead to low 
tide levels in the Bays. P-ETSS guidance for Galveston Bay Entrance 
has tides between 0.5 to 1 foot below MLLW at low tide on Saturday 
afternoon. 

Fowler

&&

.PRELIMINARY POINT TEMPS/POPS...
College Station (CLL)	  46  79  60  70 /   0   0  50  80 
Houston (IAH)			  49  78  61  73 /   0   0  40  80 
Galveston (GLS)			  63  75  69  76 /   0   0  50  80 

&&

.HGX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
TX...None.
GM...None.
&&

$$

SHORT TERM...Fowler
LONG TERM....Fowler
AVIATION...Fowler 
MARINE...Fowler
