982 
FXUS63 KGRR 260541
AFDGRR

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Grand Rapids MI
141 AM EDT Wed Oct 26 2022

LATEST UPDATE...
Aviation

.UPDATE...
Issued at 722 PM EDT Tue Oct 25 2022

So far our rainfall has outpaced most of the model forecast
between Muskegon and South Haven. A narrow strip from US-31 to the
lake shore has already had between 1.0 inches and 1.35 inches.
However, just go 20 miles inland from the lake shore and rainfall
amounts are under a 0.50 inches, east of US-131 there has been
less than 0.20 inches of rain. Now I admit the models did well on
the rainfall gradient this evening. We are watching Crest to see 
if we need to issue a flood advisory but so far I am thinking that
will not be needed that. Seems from the radar the rainfall rates 
will decrease considerably over the next few hours. I do expect 
one more period of heavy rain toward sunrise through. 

Our surface low is currently over southern Illinois and is
forecast to track near Lansing around 8 am in the morning. There
is likely to be a deformation rain band near the surface low that
could bring 2-4 hours of moderate to heavy rain west of the track
of the surface low. Between now and then I expect rainfall rates
to let some since the 1000/850 moisture transport vectors will no
longer be pointed at this area any more. Also in that time frame 
the low level jet, which was aimed at our SW CWA fades, becomes 
aimed at the Detroit and Cleveland area. 

Note that all areas will see showers overnight tonight but
rainfall amounts near I-69 will likely be under a 0.50 inches,
while between I-69 and and US-131 rainfall will likely be between
0.50 inches and 1.2 inches and west of US-131 I would expect
between 1.0 inches and 2.0o inches by noon Wednesday when the rain
should come to an end.

The bottom line is the heaviest rainfall rates for this evening
have already happened but there will be another period of heavy
rain toward sunrise. 

&&

.DISCUSSION...(This evening through next Tuesday)
Issued at 358 PM EDT Tue Oct 25 2022

Two features of interest during the next week. The first is the 
low riding along a baroclinic zone that brings us rain tonight 
into Wednesday. The second is a Pacific shortwave trough that
closes off over the central Rockies on Thursday and becomes 
detached from the stronger belt of westerlies before eventually
getting picked up by and phasing with a following trough.

The first low is tapping deep southerly flow with satellite
imagery showing a conveyor belt stretching all the way back to the
southwest Gulf of Mexico. The persistent area of frontogenetic 
forcing on the northeast side of the slow moving low in a blocky 
regime will mean an axis of rainfall amounts over an inch across 
roughly the western half of the forecast area by the time the 
rain moves east on Wednesday afternoon.

We will see fair and cooler weather under sfc high pressure 
Thursday and into the weekend then we will have to watch the
approach of the rain shield as the next low lifts northeast out 
of Gulf region late in the weekend. Plenty of ensemble spread 
means low confidence on where the western/northern edge of the 
precip shield will be.

&&

.AVIATION...(For the 06Z TAFS through 06Z Wednesday night)
Issued at 140 AM EDT Wed Oct 26 2022

IFR cigs continue at MKG with cigs decreasing after 07Z. Expect
periods of IFR cigs at GRR, AZO and LAN. Rain will be heaviest in
the 09z to 15z time frame as the surface low passes through the 
area. That is when to expect IFR cigs and MVFR visibility's that 
may be occasionally IFR in the heaver rainfall. No thunderstorms 
are expected with this system tonight. 
 Once the surface low moves northeast of the area by early 
afternoon skies the rain should come to an end and cigs/vsby 
should become VFR and skies may even clear by sunset.
 Winds will mix down after sunrise with gusty winds through the
daytime until the area decouples between 00Z to 03Z. 


&&

.MARINE...
Issued at 358 PM EDT Tue Oct 25 2022

After a brief lull this afternoon into early evening, winds and
waves will ramp up behind the cold front and gale conditions can
be expected in northerly flow and cold air advection allowing
mixing of 25 to 40 knot gales down to the lake through Wednesday.
The burst of strongest winds are expected late tonight into
Wednesday morning then conditions will gradually improve in the
afternoon and evening.


&&

.GRR WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
MI...None.
LM...Gale Warning from 5 AM early this morning to 8 PM EDT this 
     evening for LMZ844>849.

&&

$$

UPDATE...WDM
DISCUSSION...Ostuno
AVIATION...Ceru
MARINE...Ostuno
