994 
FXUS63 KGRR 260732
AFDGRR

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Grand Rapids MI
332 AM EDT Wed Oct 26 2022

LATEST UPDATE...
Discussion/Marine

.DISCUSSION...(Today through next Tuesday)
Issued at 330 AM EDT Wed Oct 26 2022

-- Rain through the first half of the day, clearing Tonight --

The biggest forecast concern will be the position and track of a
TROWAL moving in conjunction with a deformation band moving 
across lower Michigan between 09Z to 12Z. A period of heavy rain 
will move northward with an additional 0.5 inch to an inch 
possible with the heaviest rain rates before sunrise. 

The upper level trough that is driving this system and will 
quickly move eastward this afternoon and continue east this 
evening. Expect strong downsloping flow to follow in the wake of 
this exiting system bringing strong gusty northerly winds. Cold 
air will return to the region with Max temperatures today much 
closer to normal, in the low 50. 

--Drier and cooler weather ahead --

Baroclinic, zonal flow will dominate the upper pattern, with high
pressure through the mid to low levels. This will keep drier air
over the region through the weekend. Temperatures will rebound
into the weekend, with highs in the low 60s this weekend. The next
chance for precipitation will be early next week.

&&

.AVIATION...(For the 06Z TAFS through 06Z Wednesday night)
Issued at 140 AM EDT Wed Oct 26 2022

IFR cigs continue at MKG with cigs decreasing after 07Z. Expect
periods of IFR cigs at GRR, AZO and LAN. Rain will be heaviest in
the 09z to 15z time frame as the surface low passes through the 
area. That is when to expect IFR cigs and MVFR visibility's that 
may be occasionally IFR in the heaver rainfall. No thunderstorms 
are expected with this system tonight. 
 Once the surface low moves northeast of the area by early 
afternoon skies the rain should come to an end and cigs/vsby 
should become VFR and skies may even clear by sunset.
 Winds will mix down after sunrise with gusty winds through the
daytime until the area decouples between 00Z to 03Z. 


&&

.MARINE...
Issued at 330 AM EDT Wed Oct 26 2022

Strong northerly flow with a lot of fetch across the lake will
allow for winds and waves to ramp up behind the cold front. This
will spark gale conditions with the cold air advection mixing 25 
to 40 knot gales down to the lake through today. The burst of 
strongest winds are expected this morning then conditions will 
gradually improve as winds and waves will slowly diminish this evening.


&&

.GRR WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
MI...None.
LM...Gale Warning from 5 AM early this morning to 8 PM EDT this 
     evening for LMZ844>849.

&&

$$

DISCUSSION...Ceru
AVIATION...Ceru
MARINE...Ceru
