392 
FXUS63 KGRR 261150
AFDGRR

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Grand Rapids MI
750 AM EDT Wed Oct 26 2022

LATEST UPDATE...
Aviation

.DISCUSSION...(Today through next Tuesday)
Issued at 330 AM EDT Wed Oct 26 2022

-- Rain through the first half of the day, clearing Tonight --

The biggest forecast concern will be the position and track of a
TROWAL moving in conjunction with a deformation band moving 
across lower Michigan between 09Z to 12Z. A period of heavy rain 
will move northward with an additional 0.5 inch to an inch 
possible with the heaviest rain rates before sunrise. 

The upper level trough that is driving this system and will 
quickly move eastward this afternoon and continue east this 
evening. Expect strong downsloping flow to follow in the wake of 
this exiting system bringing strong gusty northerly winds. Cold 
air will return to the region with Max temperatures today much 
closer to normal, in the low 50. 

--Drier and cooler weather ahead --

Baroclinic, zonal flow will dominate the upper pattern, with high
pressure through the mid to low levels. This will keep drier air
over the region through the weekend. Temperatures will rebound
into the weekend, with highs in the low 60s this weekend. The next
chance for precipitation will be early next week.

&&

.AVIATION...(For the 12Z TAFS through 12Z Thursday morning)
Issued at 749 AM EDT Wed Oct 26 2022

A cold front stretches from near Saginaw to Jackson at 12Z.
Widespread MVFR and IFR ceilings are in place near the front
covering almost all of the southern half of Lower Michigan.
Ceilings are already trending up at western TAF sites like MKG,
but a varied IFR / MVFR mix can be expected at points to the east
of there for a few more hours. By midday/16Z, the IFR should have
lifted/moved east. A further improvement is expected this
afternoon with conditions trending to VFR bases and eventually
clearing. VFR weather is expected to prevail tonight. Winds today
will be from the northwest at 15-25 knots.

&&

.MARINE...
Issued at 330 AM EDT Wed Oct 26 2022

Strong northerly flow with a lot of fetch across the lake will
allow for winds and waves to ramp up behind the cold front. This
will spark gale conditions with the cold air advection mixing 25 
to 40 knot gales down to the lake through today. The burst of 
strongest winds are expected this morning then conditions will 
gradually improve as winds and waves will slowly diminish this evening.


&&

.GRR WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
MI...None.
LM...Gale Warning until 8 PM EDT this evening for LMZ844>849.

&&

$$

DISCUSSION...Ceru
AVIATION...Duke
MARINE...Ceru
