206 
FXUS61 KAKQ 260025
AFDAKQ

AREA FORECAST DISCUSSION
National Weather Service Wakefield VA
825 PM EDT Tue Oct 25 2022

.SYNOPSIS...
Low clouds spread west from the coast again tonight with fog
likely by morning, especially near the coast. A few showers are
possible Wed ahead of a cold front. High pressure north of the 
area builds southward Saturday ahead of low pressure early next 
week.

&&

.NEAR TERM /UNTIL 6 AM WEDNESDAY MORNING/...
As of 815 PM EDT Tuesday...

Evening sfc analysis depicts a coastal low off the SE coast with
a coastal trough lingering along the coast and high pressure 
aloft. Low stratus deck continues to push inland this evening
with moisture pushing west as the coastal trough moves a bit 
closer to shore. Fog will be likely tonight into mid morning, 
especially near the coast (due to increasing dew points over the
cooler ocean temps). A secondary area of locally dense fog may
develop in the W Piedmont (over similar areas that saw dense fog
this morning) where temps are a little cooler. Some patchy 
drizzle will also possible. Lows tonight will be tempered by 
insulating clouds, generally in the lower to mid 50s W and mid 
and upper 50s to near 60F near the coast.

&&

.SHORT TERM /6 AM WEDNESDAY MORNING THROUGH FRIDAY NIGHT/...
As of 825 PM EDT Tuesday...

Low level winds swing around to the south on Wednesday ahead of the 
aforementioned trough/surface low moving into southern Canada by Wed 
evening. Low clouds may hang on into the afternoon before 
clearing across E portions of the area and clearing by late 
afternoon across W portions of the area behind the cold front.
Stratus holding on longer than modeled seems possible given
abundant moisture and additional forcing invof the cold front.
Latest hires guidance suggests this with the HRRR/NAM/ARW
showing highs only in the lower 60s for the Piedmont. However,
if clearing occurs behind the front, temps may quickly rise 
into the upper 60s. Therefore, trended lower with temps and now
have highs in the mid to upper 60s W and mid 70s SE (where the
best chance for clearing resides). Expect a sharp temp gradient
depending on where clouds clear ahead of the clouds from the
cold front. Some areas in SE VA/NE NC may approach the upper
70s. Spotty showers will be possible across the region during 
the afternoon into the early evening as a cold front pushes E. 
Not expecting much in the way of measurable rainfall for this 
event as deep moisture will be in short supply. Any lingering 
showers will be confined to the coast by evening and well 
offshore after midnight as the attendant cold front moves across
the area. Overnight lows fall into the upper 40s W to the mid 
50s along the coast. 

High pressure builds NW of the area on Thursday and moves into NY by 
Friday. Expecting dry conditions for our area Thursday with temps in 
the mid 60s to low 70s. Lows overnight cool into the low 40s NW to 
the low 50s for SE VA and NE NC. Winds turn NE on Friday as high 
pressure translates eastward. Increasing onshore flow/moisture will 
cause increasing clouds to spread from E to W Friday, keeping 
temperatures generally in the 60s. Remaining dry overnight with lows 
in the 40s inland and low to mid 50s near the water.

&&

.LONG TERM /SATURDAY THROUGH TUESDAY/...
As of 315 PM EDT Tuesday...

High pressure ridges southward Saturday into Sunday as low pressure 
approaches from the Gulf Coast. Another area of low pressure moves 
northward offshore and could bring a few showers to coastal NE 
NC Saturday. Moisture will be limited, however. Blended guidance
continues to show some potential for light precip Sunday 
morning but will limit PoPs to slight chance until deeper 
moisture arrives later Sunday into Monday and lingers into early
Tuesday before moving offshore. High temps inch upward through 
the 60s Sat/Sun with upper 60s and low 70s by Mon/Tue. Overnight
lows in the 40s and 50s Sat through Tue.

&&

.AVIATION /00Z WEDNESDAY THROUGH SUNDAY/...
As of 810 PM EDT Tuesday...

Low stratus deck continues to push inland this evening with
widespread IFR/LIFR already occuring and only patchy MVFR CIGs.
Expect CIGs to lower tonight with primarily LIFR CIGs of 100-300
ft across the area. In addition, marine fog is expected to push
inland given high dewpoints over the water with additional fog
development expected in the Piedmont (over similar areas as this
morning). Most inland fog is expected to be 1-3 SM with locally
dense fog (1/4-1 SM). However, more widespread dense fog is
expected along the coast and over the Eastern Shore with 1/4-1/2
SM VIS is expected. The least confidence in VIS is at RIC where
low CIGs may help mitigate fog development. Fog gradually lifts
by mid morning with IFR/LIFR CIGs likely lingering until around
noon or early afternoon. CIGs gradually lift during the
afternoon with MVFR/VFR conditions expected to return. Winds
will be generally light and variable tonight, becoming S 5-8 kt
Wed. A few light showers will be possible Wed afternoon/evening
along a cold front pushing through, but confidence in coverage
is too low to reflect in the 00z tafs.

Winds shift to N behind the cold front Wed night with stratus
possible. However, with drier air, MVFR/VFR CIGs are expected.

&&

.MARINE...
As of 350 PM EDT Tuesday...

Late this aftn, weak low pressure was centered well off the Mid
Atlc coast, while weak high pressure was centered over the local
waters. Winds were NNE 5-10 kt over the waters, with waves 1-2
ft and seas 2-3 ft. Weak high pressure remains in the vicinity 
of the Mid Atlc coast through tonight, before shifting offshore
Wed. Winds will become SSE 10 kt or less on Wed, in advance of
the next cold front. The cold front will cross the waters Wed 
night, with marginal SCA conditions possible (esply for the Ches
Bay) with the initial CAA surge late Wednesday night into Thu 
morning. Strong high pressure will then build from the Eastern 
Great Lakes into New England Thu night into the weekend resulting
in an extended period of NE flow with SCA conditions likely for
much of the marine area. Seas will generally be 2-4 ft through 
midweek, and then build to 5-8 ft late Fri into this weekend, 
with 2-4 ft waves in the Bay (3-5 ft at the mouth of the Bay).

&&

.AKQ WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
MD...None.
NC...None.
VA...None.
MARINE...None.

&&

$$
SYNOPSIS...RHR
NEAR TERM...RMM
SHORT TERM...RHR/RMM
LONG TERM...RHR
AVIATION...RMM
MARINE...AJB/TMG
