668 
FXUS61 KAKQ 260537
AFDAKQ

AREA FORECAST DISCUSSION
National Weather Service Wakefield VA
137 AM EDT Wed Oct 26 2022

.SYNOPSIS...
Fog is expected to persist through the morning before gradually
lifting. A few showers are possible later today ahead of a cold
front. High pressure north of the area builds southward from
Friday through Saturday. Another low pressure system impacts the
local area early next week.

&&

.NEAR TERM /UNTIL 6 AM THIS MORNING/...
As of 1000 PM EDT Tuesday...

Evening sfc analysis depicts a coastal low off the SE coast with
a coastal trough lingering along the coast and high pressure 
aloft. Low stratus deck continues to push inland tonight with 
moisture pushing west as the coastal trough moves a bit closer 
to shore. Fog (coastal fog) has begun to develop and will be 
likely tonight into mid morning, especially near the coast (due 
to increasing dew points over the cooler ocean temps). As such
have issued an SPS for portions of the coast until 1 AM due to
visibilities of 1/2 to 3/4 miles. A secondary area of locally 
dense fog may develop in the W Piedmont (over similar areas that
saw dense fog this morning) where temps are a little cooler. 
Some patchy drizzle will also possible. Lows tonight will be 
tempered by insulating clouds, generally in the lower to mid 50s
W and mid and upper 50s to near 60F near the coast.

&&

.SHORT TERM /6 AM THIS MORNING THROUGH FRIDAY NIGHT/...
As of 825 PM EDT Tuesday...

Low level winds swing around to the south on Wednesday ahead of the 
aforementioned trough/surface low moving into southern Canada by Wed 
evening. Low clouds may hang on into the afternoon before 
clearing across E portions of the area and clearing by late 
afternoon across W portions of the area behind the cold front.
Stratus holding on longer than modeled seems possible given
abundant moisture and additional forcing invof the cold front.
Latest hires guidance suggests this with the HRRR/NAM/ARW
showing highs only in the lower 60s for the Piedmont. However,
if clearing occurs behind the front, temps may quickly rise 
into the upper 60s. Therefore, trended lower with temps and now
have highs in the mid to upper 60s W and mid 70s SE (where the
best chance for clearing resides). Expect a sharp temp gradient
depending on where clouds clear ahead of the clouds from the
cold front. Some areas in SE VA/NE NC may approach the upper
70s. Spotty showers will be possible across the region during 
the afternoon into the early evening as a cold front pushes E. 
Not expecting much in the way of measurable rainfall for this 
event as deep moisture will be in short supply. Any lingering 
showers will be confined to the coast by evening and well 
offshore after midnight as the attendant cold front moves across
the area. Overnight lows fall into the upper 40s W to the mid 
50s along the coast. 

High pressure builds NW of the area on Thursday and moves into NY by 
Friday. Expecting dry conditions for our area Thursday with temps in 
the mid 60s to low 70s. Lows overnight cool into the low 40s NW to 
the low 50s for SE VA and NE NC. Winds turn NE on Friday as high 
pressure translates eastward. Increasing onshore flow/moisture will 
cause increasing clouds to spread from E to W Friday, keeping 
temperatures generally in the 60s. Remaining dry overnight with lows 
in the 40s inland and low to mid 50s near the water.

&&

.LONG TERM /SATURDAY THROUGH TUESDAY/...
As of 315 PM EDT Tuesday...

High pressure ridges southward Saturday into Sunday as low pressure 
approaches from the Gulf Coast. Another area of low pressure moves 
northward offshore and could bring a few showers to coastal NE 
NC Saturday. Moisture will be limited, however. Blended guidance
continues to show some potential for light precip Sunday 
morning but will limit PoPs to slight chance until deeper 
moisture arrives later Sunday into Monday and lingers into early
Tuesday before moving offshore. High temps inch upward through 
the 60s Sat/Sun with upper 60s and low 70s by Mon/Tue. Overnight
lows in the 40s and 50s Sat through Tue.

&&

.AVIATION /06Z WEDNESDAY THROUGH SUNDAY/...
As of 135 AM EDT Wednesday...

Widespread fog has overspread the terminals early this morning
with VSBYs of 1/4-1SM (and CIGs of 200-300ft AGL). The fog (and
LIFR to VLIFR conditions) will persist through 13-15z before
gradually lifting. Even after the fog lifts, IFR to LIFR CIGs
will likely linger into the midday to early aftn timeframe
before becoming MVFR to VFR and potentially scattering out. CIGs
should become VFR at all of the terminals by 21-00z. Winds will
be generally light and variable this morning, becoming SSW 5-10 
kt later today. Patchy drizzle is possible this morning, and a 
few showers will be possible this afternoon/evening along and
ahead of a cold front pushing through. However, confidence in 
coverage remains too low to reflect in the TAFs.

Winds shift to the N-NE behind the cold front tonight with 
MVFR stratus possible in SE VA/NE NC. VFR conditions are
expected on Thursday. Low stratus may result in flight
restrictions Thu night into Friday.

&&

.MARINE...
As of 930 PM EDT Tuesday...

As anticipated, fog has set in over the local waters late this
evening and will become dense (1/4 to 1/2 NM) overnight. As
such, a marine dense fog advisory is in effect for all local
waters and will remain in place through 10 AM EDT Wednesday.
Otherwise, winds will be light and variable on the Ches
Bay, Currituck Sound, and eastern VA Rivers overnight with E-NE
winds around 5 kt on the coastal waters given weak high pressure
overhead.

Weak high pressure shifts offshore Wed. Winds will become SSE 
10 kt or less on Wed, in advance of the next cold front. The 
cold front will cross the waters Wed night, with marginal SCA 
conditions possible (esply for the Ches Bay) with the initial 
CAA surge late Wednesday night into Thu morning. Strong high 
pressure will then build from the Eastern Great Lakes into New 
England Thu night into the weekend resulting in an extended 
period of NE flow with SCA conditions likely for much of the 
marine area. Seas will generally be 2-4 ft through midweek, and 
then build to 5-8 ft late Fri into this weekend, with 2-4 ft 
waves in the Bay (3-5 ft at the mouth of the Bay).

&&

.AKQ WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
MD...None.
NC...None.
VA...None.
MARINE...Dense Fog Advisory until 10 AM EDT this morning for ANZ630>638-
     650-652-654-656-658.

&&

$$
SYNOPSIS...RHR
NEAR TERM...RMM
SHORT TERM...RHR/RMM
LONG TERM...RHR
AVIATION...ERI
MARINE...JDM/TMG
