536 
FXUS61 KAKQ 262358
AFDAKQ

AREA FORECAST DISCUSSION
National Weather Service Wakefield VA
758 PM EDT Wed Oct 26 2022

.SYNOPSIS...
A few showers are possible ahead of a cold front this
afternoon and evening. High pressure north of the area builds 
southward from Friday through Saturday. Another low pressure 
system impacts the local area early next week.

&&

.NEAR TERM /UNTIL 6 AM THURSDAY MORNING/...
As of 800 PM EDT Wednesday...

A prefrontal trough continues to push through SE VA/NE NC this
evening bringing stratus and isolated showers. Any showers 
should taper off by around midnight. The cold front is lagging 
behind and was located in the far W Piedmont this evening. This 
front will push SE overnight bringing another round of stratus
which will keep temps from dropping to some extent. The stratus
may linger across SE VA/NE NC into mid- late morning with 
clearing inland. Additionally, between the prefrontal trough 
and cold front tonight, clearing is occuring which is allowing 
for patchy ground fog to develop inland across S/SE VA and NE 
NC. Any fog should be relatively brief and dissipate with the 
arrival of the stratus and cold front. Overnight lows in the mid
to upper 40s NW to the mid 50s SE.

&&

.SHORT TERM /6 AM THURSDAY MORNING THROUGH SATURDAY/...
As of 330 PM EDT Wednesday...

Cool high pressure builds across the Midwest and into the Great 
Lakes on Thursday. Expecting a much nicer day Thursday than we've 
have seen of late with mostly sunny skies central and N but thicker 
clouds hang on across the southeast into early afternoon. High temps 
generally in the mid 60s. A bit cooler overnight with lows in the 
low 40s N to low 50s. 

High pressure moves to New England Friday into Saturday which will 
allow winds to become NNE then NE, bringing a return of low level 
moisture and stratus clouds. With limited heating, will continue to 
undercut blended guidance with high temps in the upper 50s NW to the 
mid 60s SE. Did not go quite as low as the 12 NAM guidance which 
holds high temps in the 40s across the Piedmont on Friday. Lows 
Friday night will be similar with temps in the low 40s to mid 50s NW-
SE. Continued dry on Saturday with highs upper 50s to low/mid
60s.

&&

.LONG TERM /SATURDAY NIGHT THROUGH WEDNESDAY/...
As of 330 PM EDT Wednesday...

High pressure moves off the New England coast on Sunday but 
continues to ridge SW to the east of the mountains. Will maintain a 
dry forecast until Sunday afternoon as moisture spreads into the 
region from low pressure approaching from the SW. 12z guidance keeps 
the deeper moisture mostly to our west and north into early next 
week so will feature the highest PoPs along the western and northern 
portions of the area with relative lower chances east and southeast. 
QPF looks to be limited once again with this system. Moisture 
lingers into Tuesday but PoPs decrease back into slight chance range 
as moisture/forcing depart to the NE.

High temps Sunday range from around 60 NW to around 70 SE. A few 
degrees warmer on Monday with temps in the 60s NW to the low/mid 70s 
SE. Similar temps can be expected on Tuesday and Wednesday. 
Overnight lows generally in the 50s to low 60s into early next week.

&&

.AVIATION /00Z THURSDAY THROUGH MONDAY/...
As of 755 PM EDT Wednesday...

A prefrontal trough continues to push through SE VA/NE NC this
evening bringing a brief CIG drop to MVFR (2500-3000 ft) at
ORF/ECG. The cold front is lagging behind and was located in the
far W Piedmont this evening. This front will push SE overnight
bringing another round of VFR/MVFR stratus. The greatest chance
for MVFR CIGs is in SE VA/NE NC. The stratus may linger across
SE VA/NE NC into mid-late morning with clearing inland. VFR 
conditions return by late morning with clearing skies by the 
afternoon apart from bay-effect clouds near the coast (VA Beach 
and the Outer Banks). Additionally, between the prefrontal 
trough and cold front tonight, clearing is occuring which will 
allow for patchy ground fog inland across S/SE VA and NE NC. 
However, fog is expected to remain away from the terminals with 
ECG having the relative greatest (although too low to reflect in
the tafs) chance. Any fog dissipates with the arrival of the 
stratus from the cold front. Winds are light and variable this 
evening, becoming NNW/N 5-10 kt overnight, then becoming N 10-15
kt with gusts to around 20 kt Thurs. Low stratus may result in 
flight restrictions Thurs night into Friday.

&&

.MARINE...
As of 350 PM EDT Wednesday...

Late this aftn, winds were mainly SSW 5-10 kt over the waters.
Waves were 1-2 ft and seas were 2-4 ft. A cold front, currently
pushing into wrn VA, will cross the waters later this evening 
into tonight. Behind the front, winds will become N to NW and 
increase to 15 to 20 kt with gusts to 25 kt. As a result, SCAs 
are in effect for all the waters outside of the upper rivers 
starting late tonight. It remains breezy through much of the day
Thu, before winds take on a NE component and a secondary surge 
develops Thu night. Strong high pressure builds from the Ern 
Great Lakes into New England through the weekend, allowing for 
an extended period of NE flow over the waters. SCAs will likely 
need to be extended through at least Sat (longer for the coastal
waters due to seas of 5+ ft). Seas will build to 4 to 5 ft later
tonight through Thu, then build further to 5 to 8 ft Fri into 
the weekend.

&&

.TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
As of 600 PM EDT Wednesday...

At least minor tidal flooding will be possible area-wide later 
this week into this weekend, due to persistent onshore/NE flow, 
allowing for water levels to increase.

&&

.AKQ WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
MD...None.
NC...None.
VA...None.
MARINE...Small Craft Advisory from 1 AM Thursday to 7 PM EDT Friday for 
     ANZ630>632-634.
     Small Craft Advisory from 4 AM Thursday to 7 PM EDT Friday for 
     ANZ633-638-650-652-654-656-658.

&&

$$
SYNOPSIS...ERI
NEAR TERM...RMM
SHORT TERM...RHR
LONG TERM...RHR
AVIATION...RMM
MARINE...AJB/TMG
TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
