173 
FXUS61 KAKQ 261931
AFDAKQ

AREA FORECAST DISCUSSION
National Weather Service Wakefield VA
331 PM EDT Wed Oct 26 2022

.SYNOPSIS...
A few showers are possible ahead of a cold front this
afternoon and evening. High pressure north of the area builds 
southward from Friday through Saturday. Another low pressure 
system impacts the local area early next week.

&&

.NEAR TERM /UNTIL 6 AM THURSDAY MORNING/...
As of 330 PM EDT Wednesday...

Afternoon observations show extensive clouds remain across central 
and western portions of the area with some clearing noted across the 
far SE. Surface low pressure has moved well north of the area into 
southern Canada as the associated cold front remains west of the 
area but will swing through the region this evening and tonight. A 
few spotty showers are possible ahead of the front but with limited 
deep moisture and better forcing well north of the region not 
expecting much QPF. Clouds finally decrease from NW to SE late 
tonight in the wake of the front. Overnight lows range from the mid 
40s NW to the mid 50s SE.

&&

.SHORT TERM /6 AM THURSDAY MORNING THROUGH SATURDAY/...
As of 330 PM EDT Wednesday...

Cool high pressure builds across the Midwest and into the Great 
Lakes on Thursday. Expecting a much nicer day Thursday than we've 
have seen of late with mostly sunny skies central and N but thicker 
clouds hang on across the southeast into early afternoon. High temps 
generally in the mid 60s. A bit cooler overnight with lows in the 
low 40s N to low 50s. 

High pressure moves to New England Friday into Saturday which will 
allow winds to become NNE then NE, bringing a return of low level 
moisture and stratus clouds. With limited heating, will continue to 
undercut blended guidance with high temps in the upper 50s NW to the 
mid 60s SE. Did not go quite as low as the 12 NAM guidance which 
holds high temps in the 40s across the Piedmont on Friday. Lows 
Friday night will be similar with temps in the low 40s to mid 50s NW-
SE. Continued dry on Saturday with highs upper 50s to low/mid
60s.

&&

.LONG TERM /SATURDAY NIGHT THROUGH WEDNESDAY/...
As of 330 PM EDT Wednesday...

High pressure moves off the New England coast on Sunday but 
continues to ridge SW to the east of the mountains. Will maintain a 
dry forecast until Sunday afternoon as moisture spreads into the 
region from low pressure approaching from the SW. 12z guidance keeps 
the deeper moisture mostly to our west and north into early next 
week so will feature the highest PoPs along the western and northern 
portions of the area with relative lower chances east and southeast. 
QPF looks to be limited once again with this system. Moisture 
lingers into Tuesday but PoPs decrease back into slight chance range 
as moisture/forcing depart to the NE.

High temps Sunday range from around 60 NW to around 70 SE. A few 
degrees warmer on Monday with temps in the 60s NW to the low/mid 70s 
SE. Similar temps can be expected on Tuesday and Wednesday. 
Overnight lows generally in the 50s to low 60s into early next week.

&&

.AVIATION /20Z WEDNESDAY THROUGH MONDAY/...
As of 130 PM EDT Wednesday...

Winds have finally become SW 5-10 kt which is helping to scour
out the stubborn low level moisture. Most observations are now
showing MVFR CIGs but SBY will have another few hours of IFR
CIGs before lifting to MVFR later this afternoon. Expect
improvement to VFR at all terminals by late afternoon. A few 
spotty showers are likely this afternoon and evening but low
confidence in timing and location continue to preclude mention 
in the TAFs. Brief MVFR CIGs are possible as the showers move
through the region. A cold front swings through tonight with 
winds turning NNW 5-10 kt inland and 10-15 kt near the coast.
Guidance shows a few hours of MVFR conditions Thursday morning
but confidence is low so will leave out of the forecast for now.

Otherwise, VFR conditions are expected on Thursday. Low stratus
may result in flight restrictions Thu night into Friday.

&&

.MARINE...
As of 325 AM EDT Wednesday...

Early this morning, weak high pressure remains centered over the 
local waters leading to generally light and variable winds. 
Widespread fog has set in over the waters early this morning with 
visibilities as low as 1/4 to 1/2 NM at times. As a result, a Marine 
Dense Fog Advisory remains in effect through 10 AM this morning. It 
is possible the DFA may need to be extended for a few more hours, 
especially over the northern coastal waters. 

High pressure gradually shifts to the east today, allowing for winds 
to become SSE and increase to around 10 knots by this afternoon. 
Meanwhile, a cold front will be approaching the region from the west 
today and eventually cross the waters later this evening into 
tonight. Behind the front, winds become N to NW and increase to 15 
to 20 knots with gusts to 25 knots. As a result, a Small Craft 
Advisory is now in effect for all waters outside of the upper rivers 
starting late tonight. It remains breezy through much of the day 
Thursday before winds take on a NE component and a secondary surge 
develops Thursday night. Strong high pressure builds from the 
Eastern Great Lakes into New England through the weekend allowing 
for an extended period of NE flow over the waters. SCAs will likely 
need to be extended through Saturday (longer for the coastal waters 
due to seas of 5+ ft). Seas will range from 2 to 4 feet today, 
before building to 4 to 5 feet later tonight through Thursday. Seas 
build further to 5 to 8 feet Friday into the weekend.

&&

.TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
As of 400 AM EDT Wednesday...

An increasing S to SSE wind later this morning and afternoon
will allow for tidal anomalies in the upper Chesapeake Bay to
increase to ~1.0 ft. As a result, Bishops Head, MD will likely 
approach minor flood stage with the afternoon high tide cycle. 
Additional instances of at least minor tidal flooding will be 
possible area-wide later this week into this weekend due to
persistent onshore/NE flow, allowing for water levels to
increase.

&&

.AKQ WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
MD...Coastal Flood Advisory until 6 PM EDT this evening for MDZ021.
NC...None.
VA...None.
MARINE...Small Craft Advisory from 1 AM Thursday to 7 PM EDT Friday for 
     ANZ630>632-634.
     Small Craft Advisory from 4 AM Thursday to 7 PM EDT Friday for 
     ANZ633-638-650-652-654-656-658.

&&

$$
SYNOPSIS...ERI
NEAR TERM...RHR
SHORT TERM...RHR
LONG TERM...RHR
AVIATION...RHR
MARINE...AJB
TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
