499 
FXUS63 KLSX 262316
AFDLSX

Area Forecast Discussion...Updated Aviation
National Weather Service Saint Louis MO
616 PM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

.SHORT TERM...  (Through Late Thursday Night)
Issued at 231 PM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

Breezy northwest winds will continue to veer and weaken this 
afternoon as surface high pressure moves into the Mid-Mississippi 
Valley. Clear skies associated with the high will yield to cloudy 
conditions tonight as high-level moisture advects into the area from 
the west. The presence of high clouds will persist through the day 
Thursday. Conditions Thursday should be similar to those of today, 
with temperatures in the upper 50s to low 60s areawide. Cooler 
temperatures should be confined to where high clouds will be 
thickest, primarily in the northern half of the CWA. Lows will also 
be similar, falling into the upper 30s to 40 degrees both tonight 
and tomorrow night.

Jaja

.LONG TERM...  (Friday through Next Wednesday)
Issued at 231 PM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

A shortwave trough currently in the northern Rockies will deepen, 
pushing south into the southern Plains by 12z Friday. The upper low 
will become cut off and slowly traverse the southern Plains until it 
begins to lift northeastward toward the Mid-Mississippi Valley 
Saturday night into Sunday. As the system approaches, it will bring 
weak ascent and low level moisture into the area, with the most 
abundant moisture located in southeast Missouri and southwest 
Illinois. 

Saturday night through Sunday is the most likely period to see 
rainfall. Since ascent will be weak, showers are expected to remain 
light in nature. The highest rainfall amounts are anticipated in a 
corridor from Reynolds County, MO through Marion County, IL. NBM 
guidance depicts a 40-45 percent probability of receiving 0.25 
inches or greater of rainfall. As NBM thresholds are increased from 
0.50 - 1 inch, probabilities decrease significantly from 30 percent 
to below 10 percent, respectively. This reinforces the notion that 
any rain that falls will be light. However, these areas did not 
receive much rainfall in the last round and could benefit from the 
weekend potential.

The system will exit the region through the day Monday. After it 
moves out, surface high pressure will build in the southeast CONUS, 
placing the Mid-Mississippi Valley in southwest flow. Warm air will 
be able to advect in, increasing temperatures on Tuesday. While 
highs up to this point will have been hovering around normal, 
Tuesday's highs will jump into the upper 60s to low 70s, up to 5-10 
degrees above average for this time of year. This is supported by 
low spread of around 5 degrees between the 25th and 75th percentile 
in the NBM 5-6 days out.

Jaja

&&

.AVIATION...  (For the 00z TAFs through 00z Thursday Evening)
Issued at 610 PM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

VFR flight conditions will prevail through the forecast period
with waves of high clouds spreading across the area. Light winds
tonight will become easterly by early Thursday morning as a result
of surface high pressure centered in the Great Lakes region.

Glass

&&

.LSX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
MO...None.
IL...None.
&&

$$

WFO LSX
