320 
FXUS63 KLSX 260412
AFDLSX

Area Forecast Discussion...Updated Aviation
National Weather Service Saint Louis MO
1112 PM CDT Tue Oct 25 2022

.SHORT TERM...  (Through Late Wednesday Night)
Issued at 249 PM CDT Tue Oct 25 2022

The main focus will be on the system that is currently progressing 
through the region today, exiting to the east late tonight. 

Latest regional satellite analysis shows a broad area of overcast 
skies extending from southeast Iowa through much of Illinois. 
Showers and embedded thunderstorms generally line up north to south 
through Illinois and are quickly exiting the eastern sections of the 
CWA. A large void exist in the activity, where the system has dry 
slotted over sections of southwest Illinois and through a large 
portion of eastern Missouri. Water vapor imagery shows very dry air 
feeding northward just ahead of the upper low, currently positioned 
over south-central Missouri. Much of the thunderstorm potential has 
been capped by early day rainfall and limited instability in the 
range of 200-500 J/kg. However, 0-6km bulk shear of 50-60 knots has 
demanded some attention with some rotation noted in earlier cells 
along the main line. While severe threat is low, this begs to be 
watched through until the surface front completely clears the 
southern sections of the CWA between 21-23z.

Analysis has depicted a slight kink in the surface pressure plots, 
coinciding with a momentary wind shift. Localized pressure 
drops/rises have been noted along/behind this surface trough, being 
the likely culprit to a narrow corridor of isolated gusts of 40-50 
mph. While the gusts have not lasted long at any one give site, they 
have resulted in a few downed limb/trees with collateral damage to 
few power lines. As the system continues to move east, this threat 
will subside, though winds will remain elevated through the evening. 

A deformation zone can be seen back to the southwest, where mid-
level lift continues to support showers across southwest Missouri. 
This area will quickly move northeast this evening into late 
tonight. This will keep low clouds in the area through late this 
evening with showers tracking across central MO through east-central 
and northeast MO into west-central IL overnight. The back edge of 
the precipitation should begin to pull east between 06z and 12z 
Wednesday. The tight pressure gradient will keep wind potential 
going with gusts of 20-25 knots at the back edge of the system. All 
of this gradually pulls east through early Wednesday as high 
pressure builds in from the west. 

Conditions quickly improve with clearing skies from west-to-east 
Wednesday morning. A cool fall feel return with highs in the upper 
50s to low-60s and plentiful sunshine.


Maples

.LONG TERM...  (Thursday through Next Tuesday)
Issued at 249 PM CDT Tue Oct 25 2022

A broad surface high will begin to shift east Thursday and Friday 
underneath west-southwesterly flow aloft. While this might normally 
hint at return surface flow and moderating temperatures, two things 
will be in play to hold temperatures at seasonably cool levels. The 
first will be the strengthening and broadening of the surface ridge 
over the Great Lakes into the mid-Mississippi Valley, favoring 
easterly surface flow. The second will be weak vort features 
embedded within the upper level flow, ejecting northeast into the 
Mississippi Valley from the southern plains. High clouds in 
conjunction with easterly surface flow should keep conditions 
seasonably cool. Highs in the upper 50s to low-60s and lows in the 
mid-30s to low-40s should represent a large majority of the area.

A positively tilted upper shortwave originates out of the Pacific 
Northwest during the midweek period, amplifying over the 
Intermountain west, all before tracking into the southern Plains. 
This induces a surface low at the lee side of the Rockies, drawing 
moisture northward into the southern Plains from late week into the 
weekend. Though the system initially deepens over the southern 
Plains, it remains cut off from the main flow, and briefly stagnates 
heading into next weekend. Latest NBM guidance has delayed the onset 
of precipitation from Friday night to midday Saturday, mainly south 
of I-70. Easterly flow provided by the surface ridge to the east 
could very well play a role in keeping dry surface to mid-level 
easterly flow going into the early portion of the weekend. The dry 
influence is likely to have great impact north of I-70, while areas 
to the south see better rain chances. That said, cluster analysis 
favors a weakening upper level wave Saturday into Sunday. While rain 
chances remain in the forecast, there is some drop in confidence on 
the placement and magnitude with question in the evolution of the 
system.


Maples

&&

.AVIATION...  (For the 06z TAFs through 06z Wednesday Night)
Issued at 1112 PM CDT Tue Oct 25 2022

Showers lingering at St. Louis metro terminals should dissipate 
before the start of the TAF period, with any MVFR stratus also 
clearing shortly thereafter. Otherwise, dry and VFR flight 
conditions are expected through Wednesday night. Northwesterly winds 
could still gust to around 20 to 25 kt at St. Louis metro terminals 
into the day Wednesday, but lighter and more northerly winds will 
eventually become established at all terminals as a surface high 
pressure center arrives through the day. Winds could then become 
variable Wednesday night.

Pfahler

&&

.PRELIMINARY POINT TEMPS/POPS...
Saint Louis     42  61  42  60 / 100   0   0   0 
Quincy          39  59  40  57 / 100   0   0   0 
Columbia        38  62  41  59 /  90   0   0   0 
Jefferson City  38  63  39  61 /  90   0   0   0 
Salem           45  62  38  60 /  50   5   0   0 
Farmington      39  63  36  62 /  50   0   0   0 

&&

.LSX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
MO...None.
IL...None.
&&

$$

WFO LSX
