350 
FXUS65 KSLC 262217
AFDSLC

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Salt Lake City UT
417 PM MDT Wed Oct 26 2022

.SYNOPSIS...A cold front will progress through the remainder of
the area through Thursday morning bringing mountain snow, the 
potential for lake effect, and colder temperatures. High pressure
will build into the region behind this system and remain in place
into early next week. 

&&

.SHORT TERM (through 12Z/6AM Friday)...Current water vapor
satellite imagery shows a well defined low pressure system
centered over southeastern Idaho, with the associated cold frontal
boundary/ cloud shield draped over the northern half of Utah/
western half of Wyoming. This frontal boundary is expected to
continue pushing southward through the overnight hours, which will
begin to generate enhanced flow through north-south oriented
canyon areas. In particular, Black Ridge Canyon in Washington
County will see the strongest winds. Winds in this area will begin
to pick up around 11PM, peaking around 3-4AM with gusts up to
50-55mph, then continue gusting upwards of 45-50mph through the
mid morning. A wind advisory will go into effect starting at 11PM
for lower Washington County and will expire at noon. Chances are,
this advisory will be allowed to end early.

More importantly, this trough/ storm system moving through the
region has brought a round of initially hard hitting 
precipitation across portions of northern Utah where lightning and
small hail/ graupel were observed. These more intense showers 
were almost entirely tied to the passing of the frontal boundary, 
and now we're beginning to transition to more of post-frontal 
instability showers and orographically enhanced precipitation. 
With the coldest 700mb air beginning to settle into the region, 
higher elevation snow ratios will begin to increase substantially,
allowing additional snow accumulations to really stack up 
(especially in those areas favored in northwesterly flow). A 
winter weather advisory remains in effect through 6AM for the 
northern Utah mountains, with additional accumulations of 3-7 
inches anticipated. 

As noted, the coldest 700mb temperatures are beginning to filter
into the region, which will help lower snow levels to valley
floors overnight. That said, a majority of the upper support will
be downstream of the area so widespread valley snowfall is not
anticipated. What is anticipated, however, is the potential for
lake effect snowfall off the Great Salt Lake. Given that the GSL 
temperature is sitting right around 14C and the H7 airmass will be
around -10 to -11C, we'll have a nearly 25C temperature difference
between the two... certainly enough instability to kick off
convection over the lake. That said, there is little agreement
amongst hi-res guidance on location. timing, and duration of any
lake effect convection. Based on BUFR soundings, the greatest
instability and wind alignment looks to occur between ~10-11PM and
4-5AM. Initially starting with potential in the western Salt Lake
Valley, overhead winds will become more northerly after ~2AM and
will shift the potential lake effect convection to the eastern
Tooele Valley. Snow accumulations for areas under more intense
snow showers could see up to 2 inches, which may create winter
driving conditions for the early morning commute along I-80
between Tooele and Salt Lake City. Instability will diminish after
~4AM as upper subsidence and dry air begin to intrude aloft. That
said, with enough low level moisture and instability, lake effect
convection could continue through the mid-morning hours,
particularly for eastern Tooele Valley.

Lastly, with the H7 airmass expected to be in the -10 to -11C
range overnight, low temperatures along the Wasatch Front are
expected to be below 32F... which will be the first time this
season for much of the Wastach Front. A hard freeze warning is in
effect from 9PM to 9AM for the Wastach Front from Nephi through
North Ogden. There is potential for lower level cloud cover to
stick around in these areas, especially under lake effect
precipitation, which could keep temperatures warmer than forecast.
Tomorrow night looks to be much more clear, bringing higher
confidence in hard freeze conditions.

Otherwise, tomorrow will largely just feature lingering lake
effect snow showers potentially through the mid-morning hours and
daytime high temperatures about 5-10 degrees cooler.


.LONG TERM (after 12Z/6AM Friday)...Mid level ridging in place at
the beginning of the long term period will give way to a 
predominantly westerly flow across the region this weekend, as 
indicated by global ensemble means. A couple of weak embedded 
waves within this flow will bring periods of increased mid/upper 
level cloud cover, and may keep temperatures suppressed a bit. 
Late in the weekend into early next week, ridging off the CA coast
will begin to build inland. The net result across the forecast 
area will be gradual height rises with warming aloft. Overall have
trended away from bias-corrected temperatures through early next 
week, and toward raw model guidance which keeps temperatures 3-5 
degrees cooler. 

Consensus among ensemble guidance continues to advertise a deep 
trough across the region toward the end of the long term period. 
However the recent trend has been to delay this feature 12-24 hours 
with each model suite. As such, confidence will remain low in terms 
of timing, as well as whether this feature materializes at all, 
until the models exhibit better temporal agreement. 

&&

.AVIATION...KSLC...Scattered SHRA will continue then SHRASN after 
23z. The exact timing of SHSN is still fairly uncertain, but is most 
likely between 03-06z. Overall, precipitation coverage will decrease 
after 03z. However, lake-effect snow over the west Salt Lake Valley 
may cause periods of SHSN or VCSH mainly between 04-10z. There is a 
40% chance of MVFR VIS/CIGs or 15% chance of IFR VIS during this 
time. Light southeasterly flow is likely to prevail between 12-17z, 
but will be VRB at times during the overnight hours.

.REST OF UTAH AND SOUTHWEST WYOMING...Gusty northwest flow will 
continue along the front as it moves roughly north to south through 
the area. Highest winds are expected just downwind of the Central 
Mtns and through Black Ridge Canyon (after 05z) between KCDC and 
KSGU. Scattered rain/snow showers will continue to move south along 
the front, and are not expected to reach as far south as KBCE. 
Mountain obscuration is likely across northern and central UT. IFR 
VIS/CIGs are possible overnight, especially across higher 
elevations. Very isolated thunder is possible along the front.

&&

.SLC WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
UT...Hard Freeze Warning from 9 PM this evening to 9 AM MDT Thursday 
     for UTZ104>106.

     Winter Weather Advisory until 6 AM MDT Thursday for UTZ110>112.

     Wind Advisory from 11 PM this evening to noon MDT Thursday for 
     UTZ123.

WY...None.
&&

$$

Webber / Seaman / Cunningham

For more information from NOAA's National Weather Service visit...
http://weather.gov/saltlakecity

For frequently asked questions about the Area Forecast Discussion
visit...
http://weather.gov/saltlakecity/general/afd_faqs.php
