789 
FXUS65 KSLC 260921
AFDSLC

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Salt Lake City UT
321 AM MDT Wed Oct 26 2022

.SYNOPSIS...A quick hitting system will cross the region today
into Thursday morning bringing mountain snow, the potential for
lake effect and much colder temperatures once again to the area.
High pressure will build into the region behind this system and
remain in place into early next week. 

&&

.SHORT TERM (Through 12Z Friday)...Morning upper air and satellite
analysis indicates a weak shortwave crossing the state early this
morning with another, stronger shortwave across the PACNW.
Radar imagery indicates light precipitation is ongoing across
portions of central and southern Utah, with a few visibility
sensors reporting visibility down to a mile in locations such as
Clear Creek Summit, Fremont Junction, Salina Summit and Hogan
Pass. 

Light precipitation associated with the first shortwave trough
will gradually shift eastward through the morning. The cold front
associated with the stronger shortwave will cross into
northwestern Utah this morning and progress through much of the
rest of the state through tonight. With a tightening thermal 
gradient and a period of frontogenesis, expect a period of 
moderate to heavy mountain snow in particular across the Wasatch 
Mountains this afternoon into this evening. With accumulations 
expected to range from 5 to 10 inches with locally higher amounts 
for the upper Cottonwoods...seasonal roads still open and 
backcountry use still in more fall than winter mode...issued a 
winter weather advisory for the northern mountains through 
Thursday morning.

With this strong cold front and pronounced thermal gradient across
southern Utah tonight into Thursday morning, expect gusty gap
winds near north-south running canyons across lower Washington
County. The bulk of the high resolution guidance (for example 70%+
of the HREF members) suggest gusts to 50-55 mph near these
canyons...starting around midnight tonight. Issued a wind advisory
for gap winds across Washington County with this package. 

Next up for discussion is the lake effect threat across areas
south and east of the Great Salt Lake tonight into Thursday
morning. Looking at the latest lake temperature guidance for the 
Great Salt Lake, the lake is sitting around 57F or so. This will
make the temperature difference between the lake and 700mb
somewhere on the order 23-25C. Looking at model soundings with
lake temperatures near 57F, NAM3KM guidance would indicate lake 
induced CAPE around 1000 J/kg. 700mb flow looks to shift toward 
the northwest to north-northwest by midnight tonight. Finally, 
local forecast guidance based on the GFS has the threat of lake 
effect at a rarely seen 100%, with the impact across the Oquirrhs 
and eastern Tooele Valley. 

Lake effect precipitation looks likely across western SLCo and the
eastern Tooele Valley this evening into Thursday morning. Right
now, the forecast has up to 2 inches of accumulation for the west
benches of SLCo and east benches of the Tooele Valley. If 12Z
guidance continues to be this favorable, the day shift may
consider increasing snow totals and potentially issuing a winter
weather advisory for these areas. Lake effect will also be
possible for areas south and east of Utah Lake and potentially
Bear Lake. 

Outside of the area expected to be impact by the lake effect cloud
cover, 700mb temperatures behind this front are around -10C or so,
which will be more than sufficient for many areas to fall near to
below 28F. A hard freeze warning is in effect for the Wasatch
Front tonight into Thursday morning. Those who haven't winterized
their sprinkler systems, especially with above ground pipes, RVs,
swamp coolers and still have vulnerable plants should take
measures to avoid property damage today. 

.LONG TERM (After 12Z Friday)...Weak ridging is expected for the 
beginning of the long term. This will promote drier conditions 
across the CWA. A couple of shortwaves are expected to move 
through the region this coming weekend but the impacts from them 
will just be an increase in mid to upper level clouds as there is 
not a whole lot of moisture associated with these shortwaves. High
temperatures between Friday and Monday are expected to be near or
slightly above normal for this time of year. This means for most 
of the CWA high temperatures will range from near 50 degrees to 
the low 60s. For lower Washington County these high temperatures 
would be in the low 70s. Ensemble guidance continues to increase 
the chance for ridging to stick with us through Monday. Something 
to note is that this ridging begins to weaken as Monday approaches
due to a trough beginning to enter the frame from the north.

The end of the long term period is when things appear to be more 
active. A trough is expected to move down from the north and bring
increased chances for rain and snow to the CWA beginning Tuesday 
night into Wednesday morning. While ensembles are confident in 
this trough occurring, there is a decent amount of uncertainty 
left with this storm. Ensemble members are split in how long this 
trough will stick around our area for and how strong this trough 
will be. A scenario with a stronger and slower moving system would
promote the area to prolonged chances of precipitation compared 
to the faster and not as strong trough. Both scenarios bring about
precipitation chances. It is just a matter of how much. 
Temperatures for the middle of next week will drop below normal. 
It is just a matter of how much they will drop depending on the 
strength and positioning of this trough.

&&

.AVIATION....KSLC...Light southeasterly winds expected until ~19Z
when west to west-northwest winds enter the area for up to a 
couple of hours potentially. Northwesterly winds begin around 20Z 
with gusts up to 25kts for the afternoon. These gusts are expected
to die off between 23Z and 01Z. Northwest winds expected to last 
through the night. Precipitation chances begin around 16Z with the
greatest chance at sustained showers between 20Z and 23Z. VFR 
conditions are expected for the majority of the TAF period. The 
exception would be if the rain rate increases or lower CIGS occur 
to have lower flight categories present.

.REST OF UTAH AND SOUTHWEST WYOMING...Light diurnal winds expected 
for the rest of the early morning hours. A front begins to move 
through by 17Z in northwestern UT and slides southeasterly across 
the CWA. Winds will shift from the diurnal winds to northwesterly 
winds with gusts up to 30kts across the CWA for the afternoon. As 
front slides south winds will die down in northern UT and for the 
rest of the CWA by the late evening hours. Winds expected remain 
northerly for the overnight period. Precipitation chances are 
greatest for northern UT and southwest WY in the late morning to 
late afternoon period. VFR conditions expected everywhere unless the 
rain rate increases and/or the CIGS are reduced. This could bring 
about lower flight categories. 

&&

.SLC WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
UT...Hard Freeze Warning from 9 PM this evening to 9 AM MDT Thursday 
     for UTZ104>106.

     Winter Weather Advisory from 9 AM this morning to 6 AM MDT 
     Thursday for UTZ110>112.

     Wind Advisory from 11 PM this evening to noon MDT Thursday for 
     UTZ123.

WY...None.
&&

$$

Kruse/Cecava

For more information from NOAA's National Weather Service visit...
http://weather.gov/saltlakecity

For frequently asked questions about the Area Forecast Discussion
visit...
http://weather.gov/saltlakecity/general/afd_faqs.php
