474 
FXUS65 KCYS 262339
AFDCYS

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Cheyenne WY
535 PM MDT Wed Oct 26 2022

.SHORT TERM...(This evening through Friday night)
Issued at 215 PM MDT Wed Oct 26 2022

A low was located over central ID with a trough axis trailing south
into NV. The bulk of the energy and QG lift was located over southern
ID and northern NV/UT with convective activity increasing and even
a couple lightning strikes. Well ahead of this feature, light showers
were developing across southern WY. Rain and snow showers will continue
to increase in coverage from west to east through the rest of the
afternoon. There will be periods of moderate snowfall for the Snowy
and Sierra Madre mountains this afternoon and evening, with 2 to 4
inches expected, with heavier snow falling south of the WY/CO border
along the track of the mid level low. The showers will taper off from
NW to SE Thursday morning, with skies clearing. It will continue cooler
than normal with 700mb temperatures from -4C to -8C. Clear skies and
lighter winds Thursday night will result in low temperatures in
the upper teens to upper 20s. The warming trend commences Friday as
700mb temperatures rise to 2C to 6C in the afternoon. Expect high
temperatures in the mid 50s to mid 60s along and east of I-25, with
40s to lower 50s west. Lows Friday night will be milder with lower
20s to mid 30s.

.LONG TERM...(Saturday through Wednesday)
Issued at 215 PM MDT Wed Oct 26 2022

Fairly quiet weather over the weekend will likely turn more active 
for the latter part of the long term forecast period next week. The 
main concerns are the potential for strong winds on Monday and the 
next possible precipitation event on Wednesday. Uncertainty remains 
quite high for both of these. 

The synoptic pattern over the weekend will be largely under a zonal 
flow regime. A cutoff low, which will be spawned by the system 
moving through our area today, will be sitting over the southern 
plains, while a few weak shortwaves will perturb the flow slightly 
over the western US. An elongated area of 500-mb vorticity is expected
to pass through on Saturday, which will likely increase mid to high
level cloud cover. 700-mb temperatures will hover around 0C, leading
towards near normal temperatures. Another shortwave right on the tail
of this pushes through early Sunday and may knock another degree or
two C off the 700-mb temps, so expecting slightly cooler temperatures
Sunday afternoon. This period looks dry with limited lift, so 
precipitation is unlikely. 

A strong jet stream slamming into British Columbia over the weekend 
will start to sag southward on Monday, bringing the temperature 
gradient and storm track closer to our area. A week surface low 
spinning up over the Canadian prairie at the nose of the jet aloft 
will lead to falling MSLP over the high plains and increase the 
cross-barrier MSLP gradient, though this isn't too impressive now 
based on current forecasts. Similarly, jet shifting southward will 
increase height gradients to near typical high wind thresholds. The 
GFS shows 700-mb winds around 40-45 knots on Monday, pointing to a 
the possibility for a strong wind event for the wind prone areas. 
Will need to watch this period to see how this unfolds, but it looks 
marginal for reaching high wind criteria. For Tuesday, the zonal 
flow starts to transition more towards western troughing as a longer 
wave digs southward. Models show the flow aloft turning southwesterly
with good warm-air advection and downsloping leading to climbing 
700-mb temperatures to around +2 to +4C. 

Ensemble spread is fairly tight through about Tuesday. Little 
variability between member forecast temperatures projects higher 
confidence in the general temperature forecast, but this changes 
dramatically on Wednesday. For example, the GEFS 10th to 90th 
percentile 700-mb temperature spread at 00z Wednesday is about 3C, 
but this increases to about 12C by 00z Thursday. This indicates a 
major drop in forecast confidence. The deterministic GFS shows a 
deep and impressively strong upper level trough digging into the 
Great Basin, leading towards lee-cyclogenesis over the high plains. 
This specific solution ejects the trough quickly, keeping much of 
the precip along and west of the Laramie range, but still would 
bring some light QPF to the east. The deterministic ECMWF is vastly 
different, showing a shallow, progressive trough sliding through 
around this time. This keeps most of the precip to our north, but 
does allow some light QPF west of the Laramie range. Most of the 
ensemble members are somewhere in between these two extremes. For 
now, keeping the official forecast near the NBM 50th percentile for 
temperatures, with PoPs for most of the area, but highest west of 
the Laramie range.

&&

.AVIATION...(For the 00Z TAFS through Thursday evening)
Issued at 535 PM MDT Wed Oct 26 2022

A potent upper level trough will dig southeast across western and 
southern Wyoming tonight and will result in cloudy skies and an 
increasing threat for locally heavy snow showers until midnight 
(06z). Snowfall will then increase in coverage after 06z with light 
to moderate snow possible along the I-80 corridor terminals. 
Snowfall may linger through 15z early Thursday morning before skies 
gradually clear from west to east. 

HAZARDS/WEATHER TRENDS: Will continue with prevailing VFR conditions 
tonight for all terminals.  However, scattered to numerous snow 
showers this evening through 05z will result in brief IFR conditions 
in VIS below 1 mile and CIGS around 500 feet for mainly KLAR and 
KRWL. Snow will become lighter after 06z but should become more 
widespread further east, impacting KCYS and possibly KSNY with 
periods of IFR conditions through 15z Thursday.  Kept VCSH in the 
TAFs for now but will likely update later with increasing 
confidence. 

&&

.FIRE WEATHER...
Issued at 215 PM MDT Wed Oct 26 2022

A upper level disturbance will move east across Colorado tonight and
Thursday morning. Rain and snow showers will develop this afternoon
and become all snow tonight before tapering off Thursday morning. Snow
accumulations of 2 to 4 inches are likely through tonight over higher
elevations west of the Laramie Range. Temperatures will remain cool
Thursday, followed by a warming trend Friday through early next week.
Afternoon relative humidities of 30 to 40 percent Thursday will lower
to 15 to 25 percent Friday and Saturday. Gusty winds at that time will
elevate fire weather concerns along and east of the Laramie Range.

&&

.CYS WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
WY...None.
NE...None.
&&

$$

SHORT TERM...MAJ
LONG TERM...MN
AVIATION...TJT 
FIRE WEATHER...MAJ
