072 
FXUS65 KCYS 260006
AFDCYS

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Cheyenne WY
606 PM MDT Tue Oct 25 2022

.UPDATE...
Issued at 606 PM MDT Tue Oct 25 2022

Winds have continued to decrease from Laramie to Rawlins, with
wind gusts observed around 30 to 38 knots. Should continue to see
these speeds decrease as pressure gradients ease. As a result,
went ahead and cancelled high wind warning.

&&

.SHORT TERM...(This evening through Thursday night)
Issued at 230 PM MDT Tue Oct 25 2022

Gusty winds continue to plague the forecast area this afternoon as
mountain wave activity coupled with subsidence has resulted in
elevated wind gusts longer than originally forecast. Water vapor 
and visible satellite imagery show mountain waves present across 
southeast Wyoming, particularly along the wind prone corridor of
I-80. Wind gusts in excess of 50-55mph have been present through
21Z, with one site at Cooper Cove gusting up to 58mph on multiple
occasions. The weather disturbance responsible for the winds is
spread over the northern Rockies into the northern Plains. As the
disturbance moves to the east, it will create a weaker pressure
gradient for our area, and reduce wind gusts across the cwa.

The remainder of today will see partly cloudy skies with the
westerly flow creating a few light snow showers across the higher
terrain. There is a slight chance for a rain to rain/snow mix east
of I-25 across southeast Wyoming and the northern NE Panhandle.
Wind gusts will be slightly elevated in the wind prone corridors,
so have gone with a blowing snow component for the highest
elevations of the Snowy/Sierra Madres this evening into the early
Wednesday morning hours. There is only a remote chance for this to
occur based off the low amounts of snowfall that are present on
webcams for the I-80 corridor, but wanted to introduce it
nonetheless. This will be due to overnight lows remaining in the
teens to lower 20s for a majority of the cwa west of the Laramie
Range, especially the aforementioned mountains in Carbon and
Albany County.

Wednesday will usher in a shortwave disturbance from the Pacific
Northwest coastline, and be accompanied by a cold front. Mostly
cloudy conditions are favored for the majority of the cwa on
Wednesday, limiting temperatures from the low 40s to middle 50s. A
few breaks in the clouds during the afternoon will assist with an
overall gloomy and chilly day. Diffluent flow aloft ahead of the
approaching shortwave disturbance will assist in terms of
dynamics, with surface forcing over the mountains creating the
potential for light snowfall accumulations. Have decided to not
proceed with any winter headlines for the mountain terrain at this
time. The moisture will take some time to arrive from the south 
and southwest. As it does so, we will see a much higher chance for
snow shower activity to increase from west to east as better 
atmospheric energy also arrives. Hi- resolution model guidance 
shows a decent band of snow showers slowly advancing from west to 
east Wednesday evening into early Thursday.

The best window for snow shower activity on Thursday to occur 
east of the Laramie Range is trending towards after 12Z Thursday
through 18Z Thursday. However, due to this window occurring 
during daylight hours with a higher sun angle despite cloud cover 
being present, have drawn back the forecast for snowfall 
accumulation. Several considerations played into this factor 
including warm ground and surface temperatures limiting the 
potential for snow showers to accumulate on grassy surfaces at 
best for areas east of the Laramie Range. We will need to pay 
attention to the evolution of this shortwave in the event that 
colder air lingers long enough for the light snow showers to 
accumulate more than a dusting for locations east of the Laramie 
Range. Conditions should begin to clear out by late Thursday as
surface high pressure becomes dominant across the region. Overnight
lows will decrease to below average seasonal readings on the order
of the teens to middle 20s across the lower terrain. Valley regions
and the higher mountain terrain west of the Laramie Range could
see readings in the single digits for overnight lows under mostly
clear conditions. 

.LONG TERM...(Friday through Tuesday)
Issued at 230 PM MDT Tue Oct 25 2022

Rather benign conditions to start the long term across southeast
Wyoming and Nebraska Panhandle. Some signs of a pattern change to
start next week.

Upper ridge axis building into our western cwa Friday morning with
pretty warm 700mb temperatures of +3 to +4C. Expected to equate to
upper 50s to near 60 for highs eat of the Laramie Range to mid 40s
west for highs. Ridge axis shifts east into the Panhandle Friday
afternoon. 1044 AM MDT Tue Oct 25 2022

Weekend fairly nice with dry conditions and possible breezy winds
as upper shortwave approaches from the west. Did go higher than
NBM output on wind speeds for Sunday as GFS 700mb winds are
20-25kts. Nothing headline worthy...but still higher than NBM
output.

As for Halloween...dry conditions expected with fairly warm
conditions Sunday evening. Winds will be on the increase Sunday
evening into Monday as 700 and 750mb winds increase to 35kts
across Carbon and Albany Counties.

Some guidance difference on what is going to happen Monday and 
Tuesday. GFS dry and windy both Monday and Tuesday as Craig to 
Casper height gradients climb to low 50mtrs. ECMWF...on the other 
hand still dry for Monday and Tuesday...but is bringing a fairly
strong cold front into the area from the northwest. Cold front
near the Colorado/Wyoming stateline by Tuesday afternoon with
pretty hefty QPF across our western mountains into Wednesday.
Still a ways out...but bears monitoring.

&&

.AVIATION...(For the 00Z TAFS through Wednesday evening)
Issued at 535 PM MDT Tue Oct 25 2022

A series of shortwave upper level troughs will push through the area 
this evening and again starting late Wednesday.  Some snowfall or 
rain/snow mix is possible for KRWL, KLAR, and KCYS Wednesday 
afternoon through Wednesday evening as the second upper level trough 
rapidly digs southeast across the region. 

HAZARDS/WEATHER TRENDS: VFR conditions tonight with gusty winds 
quickly diminishing between 00z and 02z. Clouds will increase 
towards sunrise along the Interstate 80 corridor with snow showers 
possible after 18z Wednesday. Did not include precipitation in the 
TAF due to low confidence with timing. 


&&

.FIRE WEATHER...
Issued at 230 PM MDT Tue Oct 25 2022

Fire weather concerns will remain low the next several days due to 
below normal temperatures and the chance for light snow accumulation
across southeast Wyoming FWZs, especially the higher terrain.

&&

.CYS WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
WY...None.
NE...None.
&&

$$

UPDATE...MRD
SHORT TERM...BW
LONG TERM...GCC
AVIATION...TJT 
FIRE WEATHER...BW
