808 
FXUS65 KCYS 261008
AFDCYS

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Cheyenne WY
408 AM MDT Wed Oct 26 2022

.SHORT TERM...(Today and tonight)
Issued at 407 AM MDT Wed Oct 26 2022

Hi-Res models continue to advertise light scattered showers across 
the CWA today ahead of a cold front expected to traverse through the 
region tonight. Current radar returns are lighting up light showers 
in northern Colorado, which will eventually make their way into the 
CWA later this morning. Mainly rain showers are expected for areas 
east of the Laramie Range, and snow showers to the west. The 
mountains will be the main recipient for any accumulation during the 
day, with the Sierra Madre and Snowy Ranges picking up an inch or 
two.

The cold front looks to move through the CWA tonight which will 
likely enhance precipitation across the area. Hi-Res models show a 
band of snow moving across the area roughly around the same time as 
the front. Again, the mountains will see the bulk of the snow, with 
periods of moderate, to even heavy snow. New snow accumulations 
overnight will be between 2 and 4 inches, with a total of 6 inches 
possible between Wednesday and Wednesday night. 

Some lingering flurries and snow showers are possible during the 
morning Thursday, but overall the trend for the day will be cold 
temperatures and decreasing clouds. High temperatures Thursday will 
max out in the 30s and low 40s for areas west of the Laramie Range, 
and 40s and low 50s for areas to the east. Thursday night also looks 
to be one of the coldest, if not the coldest, night of the season so 
far. Calm winds and clear skies will lead to effective radiational 
cooling, especially for valley locations. Lows will get down into 
the teens for valley locations, and low 20s for most other places.

Although Friday will start off cold, temperatures should warm up 
fairly quickly as an upper-level ridge builds in. 700 mb 
temperatures will warm back up into the positive digits, leading to 
near to slightly above average temperatures for most! High 
temperatures Friday will be in the 50s and low 60s for areas east of 
the Laramie Range, and 40s and 50s for areas to the west.

.LONG TERM...(Thursday through Tuesday)
Issued at 407 AM MDT Wed Oct 26 2022

Weather Highlights:

1) Quiet weather, with seasonable temperatures expected through the 
majority of the long term forecast.

2) Elevated to strong winds may develop Monday across much of SE 
Wyoming. Low confidence at this time of this turning into a high 
wind event.

3) Next chance for precipitation may arrive next week, mainly for 
areas west of the Laramie Range and the high elevations.

Overview: Long term forecast remains on track from the previous 
forecast package. The region will be dominated by sharp amplitude 
ridge over the weekend that will transition into a zonal flow toward 
the beginning of next week. Embedded in this zonal flow, a weak 
shortwave trough will move through the region, with the only 
noticeable weather being an increase in cloud cover, as little to no 
moisture and wind energy will accompany this shortwave. By Monday a 
strengthening trough across the Pacific Northwest will tighten the 
gradient across the region and the second shortwave will move 
rapidly through the region on Monday. This shortwave will have a bit 
more wind as noted by H7 winds with this shortwave averaging out to 
around 45 knots from both the GFS and ECMWF model outputs. This may 
allow for some elevated to high winds to develop Monday night and 
into Tuesday morning. In house models are beginning to hint at this 
as well. The next chance for precipitation may occur with the 
aforementioned trough over the Pacific Northwest as it moves east 
toward SE Wyoming. Confidence for high winds is low at this time by 
may begin to increase if trends continue in subsequent forecast 
updates.

Outside of that, expect mostly quiet weather days with seasonal 
temperatures continuing through the weekend and into next week with 
chilly mornings.

&&

.AVIATION...(For the 00Z TAFS through Wednesday evening)
Issued at 535 PM MDT Tue Oct 25 2022

A series of shortwave upper level troughs will push through the area 
this evening and again starting late Wednesday.  Some snowfall or 
rain/snow mix is possible for KRWL, KLAR, and KCYS Wednesday 
afternoon through Wednesday evening as the second upper level trough 
rapidly digs southeast across the region. 

HAZARDS/WEATHER TRENDS: VFR conditions tonight with gusty winds 
quickly diminishing between 00z and 02z. Clouds will increase 
towards sunrise along the Interstate 80 corridor with snow showers 
possible after 18z Wednesday. Did not include precipitation in the 
TAF due to low confidence with timing. 


&&

.FIRE WEATHER...
Issued at 407 AM MDT Wed Oct 26 2022

Minimal fire weather concerns expected through Thursday. Cooler 
temperatures and another chance of precipitation should keep fire 
weather conditions at a minimal. Wednesday into Thursday, 
accumulating snow is expected in the mountains, with rain and snow 
showers possible for the lower elevations. Friday through the 
weekend, temperatures warm up and conditions dry out. Minimum 
relative humidities east of the Laramie Range could fall into the 
upper teens. 

&&

.CYS WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
WY...None.
NE...None.
&&

$$

SHORT TERM...SF
LONG TERM...AW
AVIATION...TJT 
FIRE WEATHER...SF
