636 
FXUS64 KBRO 260511 AAB
AFDBRO

Area Forecast Discussion...UPDATED
National Weather Service Brownsville TX
1211 AM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

...New AVIATION...

.SHORT TERM...
(Tonight through Wednesday night)
Issued at 155 PM CDT Tue Oct 25 2022

Overall, the short term forecast is looking quite pleasant! Much 
drier and slightly cooler air continues to filter in behind this 
morning's cold/"dry" front, along with breezy northerly winds. 
With relative humidity values dropping into the teens and 20s 
across most of the area this afternoon, there are still some fire 
weather concerns due to these dry and breezy conditions. For more 
details, check out the fire weather section below. 

Winds will begin to drop off this evening as high pressure 
briefly settles overhead. Light winds, along with mostly clear 
skies will allow for efficient radiational cooling to drop 
temperatures into the 50s across most of Deep South Texas by 
Wednesday morning, except for right along the coast where 
temperatures will be in the 60s.

High pressure will slide off to our northeast on Wednesday, 
causing winds to shift out of the east and gradually advect higher
dew points across Deep South Texas. While Wednesday won't be 
quite as dry as today, relative humidity values will still drop 
into the 20s and 30s for most of the area by the afternoon. 
Temperatures will warm up into the lower to mid 80s, which is 
still slightly below normal for this time of year. Overnight 
Wednesday, temperatures will only drop into the upper 50s to upper
60s by Thursday morning due to the onshore flow. 

&&

.LONG TERM...
(Thursday through next Tuesday)
Issued at 155 PM CDT Tue Oct 25 2022

Gulf moisture will lift north Thursday along a weak inverted 
coastal surface trough, and ahead of a cold front moving south and
expected through the CWA on Friday. The front will be supported 
aloft by an H5 trough diving through the Pacific Northwest to New 
Mexico or the Texas Panhandle around Thursday afternoon. As that 
happens, a strong south wind will develop locally at the surface, 
meaning dew points will increase into the 70s Thursday and 
Thursday night. As surface moisture returns, an isolated coastal 
shower or thunderstorm cannot be ruled out for Thursday and 
Thursday night. 

As the mid-level trough spins up an upper-level low across north 
Texas Thursday night into Friday, a surface low and associated 
cold front will develop in Central Texas. The current thinking is 
that a cold front will clear the region sometime Friday. Scattered
showers and thunderstorms will be possible with Friday's cold 
front; rain chances will be highest east of I-69C/US-281. Tstorm 
chances could be a bit temperamental due to uncertainty in the 
cold front's timing. If the front is slower, thunderstorm chances 
would be higher (more diurnal heating); if it's faster, say a mid-
Friday morning frontal passage, then thunderstorm chances would 
be less. As of now, have gone with the NBM and included tstorms 
for Friday afternoon, but that could change. By Friday night and 
beyond, the weather will dry out for the final days of October.

Heading into the weekend, the upper-level low and trough axis 
will push east of the region, and high pressure will build in, 
which will clear skies and cool us off. Temps late Friday through 
Saturday will be slightly cooler and even a bit below normal 
before warming back to normal on Sunday. 

Widespread 50s away from the immediate coast will occur Friday 
night and Saturday night, with some upper 40s possible in the 
traditionally cooler spots across Kenedy County. Daytime high 
temperatures will climb from cool middle to upper 70s on Saturday,
to the lower to middle 80s Sunday and Monday (Halloween).

Rip current risk, initially low, will become elevated Friday and 
Saturday due to the influence of stronger winds and higher seas.

&&

.AVIATION...
(06Z TAFS)
Issued at 1210 AM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

VFR conditions prevail through the period. Light and variable
winds continue through mid-morning on Wednesday before freshening
out of the east by the afternoon. 

&&

.MARINE...
Issued at 155 PM CDT Tue Oct 25 2022

Now through Wednesday Night...Marine conditions are expected to 
remain hazardous through the rest of the afternoon before quickly
becoming favorable late this evening as high pressure moves 
overhead, winds drop to a moderate northeasterly breeze, and seas 
subside. Favorable marine conditions will then persist through 
Wednesday and Wednesday night as high pressure pushes off to our 
northeast. 

Thursday through Sunday Night...Favorable marine conditions will 
occur along the Lower Texas Coast Thursday through Thursday night 
or Friday morning with only a stray shower or two possible. 
However, southeast to south winds will tend to increase ahead of a
cold front and small craft should exercise caution conditions 
will be possible. As the cold front pushes offshore on Friday, 
shower and thunderstorm chances will increase along with a shift 
to fresh northwest to north winds. Elevated winds and seas will 
develop Friday night through Saturday, when low end small craft 
advisory conditions could develop. High pressure will build in 
slowly from the north behind the front, leading to improving 
marine conditions the second half of the weekend and early next 
week.

&&

.FIRE WEATHER...
Issued at 155 PM CDT Tue Oct 25 2022

While fuel moisture is elevated enough to preclude any need for a
Fire Danger Statement or Red Flag Warning, gusty northerly winds 
combined with relative humidity values plummeting into the teens 
and 20s for most of Deep South Texas still present minor fire 
weather concerns early this afternoon. Winds are expected to drop 
later in the afternoon or early evening, ending the fire weather 
concern in the short term. 

&&

.PRELIMINARY POINT TEMPS/POPS...
BROWNSVILLE             84  67  86  72 /   0   0  20  20 
HARLINGEN               84  64  85  70 /   0   0  20  20 
MCALLEN                 86  65  86  70 /   0   0  10  10 
RIO GRANDE CITY         86  63  87  68 /   0   0   0  10 
SOUTH PADRE ISLAND      80  72  81  75 /   0   0  10  30 
BAYVIEW/PORT ISABEL     82  68  84  70 /   0   0  20  30 

&&

.BRO WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
TX...None.
GM...None.
&&

$$

SHORT TERM...69-Farris
LONG TERM....54-BHM
AVIATION...58-Reese
