435 
FXUS63 KILX 261937
AFDILX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Lincoln IL
237 PM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

.SYNOPSIS...
Issued at 233 PM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

Dry with near normal temperatures, in the upper 50s or low 60s,
for the remainder of the work week. Winds will be lighter than
previous days. There is a chance of patchy fog tonight. Cloud 
cover increases overnight, with partly to mostly cloudy skies 
expected on Thursday. The next chance of rain is late Saturday 
night into Sunday, with the best chances south of I-72. No 
thunderstorms are expected with that system.

&&

.SHORT TERM...(This evening through Thursday)
ISSUED AT 233 PM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

As a low pressure system continues to lift away from the region,
sunny skies have prevailed across central IL for much of the day, 
but persistent northwesterly flow has kept temps on the cooler 
side, only in the low to mid 50s this afternoon. The sunshine will
continue through sunset tonight, then mid/high clouds build in 
from the west overnight. Sfc high pressure centered over MO/IA 
this afternoon will track through the region overnight, and that 
could provide a window for patchy fog development, especially with
moisture from the widespread rainfall on Monday. However, the sfc
high pressure axis continues shifting east, moving past the local
area after midnight, and the increasing cloud cover may also help
limit radiational cooling potential. There is some hints of 
patchy fog in the high-res guidance, but NBM and HREF 
probabilities of reduced visibility do not have much of a signal.

By Thurs, sfc high pressure will be strengthening over the eastern
Great Lakes, with east-southeasterly flow through the ILX CWA. 
Winds will be lighter than previous days, with sustained winds 
around 10 mph and gusts less than 20 mph. Skies remain partly to 
mostly cloudy on Thurs, and with little in the way of temperature 
advection, high temperatures will once again be in the mid to 
upper 50s.

&&

.LONG TERM...(Thursday night through Wednesday)
ISSUED AT 233 PM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

No major impacts anticipated through the middle of next week, with
the main highlights of the long term period being rain chances 
late Saturday through Monday, followed by mild, above normal temps
for the middle of next week.

The next system of interest is evident in water vapor imagery this
afternoon as an upper low over southern Idaho. This wave will be 
slow to reach the local area, digging into the southern Plains and
slowly meandering east over the next few days before starting to 
lift into the mid-MS Valley late Saturday. Subsidence from weak 
mid- level height rises ahead of this wave will lead to clearing 
cloud cover on Fri, and the additional sunshine should nudge high 
temps closer to 60F. 

Much of the thinking regarding the evolution of that upper wave
remains on track. Rain is expected to push into the far 
southeastern counties of the CWA overnight Sat into Sun, then the 
highest rain chances are during the day Sun. The track of the wave
has been fairly consistent, and suggest the rain chances will be 
highest south of I-70 and decrease northward from there. 
Thunderstorms are not expected, as even the 95th percentile of 
instability guidance only has a few hundred J/kg of CAPE south of 
I-70. QPF amounts should be lighter than the previous system, with
amounts near or less than 0.10" north of I-72, increasing to 
0.25-0.50" south of I- 70. Rain chances linger into Monday, and 
ensemble cluster analysis has about 70% of members falling into 
clusters that keep rain chances in far eastern IL (east of I-57) 
during Monday afternoon. Still expecting most of the area to be 
dry by the evening on Halloween. 

Into Tues-Thurs, mild, above normal temperatures are likely. The
latest GEFS shows strong probabilities of high temperatures at 
least 10F above normal for Wed, and normal highs for early 
November are in the upper 50s. Noted that the deterministic NBM, 
which has forecast highs in the mid-60s in Lincoln, is falling 
closer to the 25th percentile. While there's not a huge difference
between the NBM 25th and 50th percentile, did nudge the high temp
forecast upward for Tues/Wed. Would not be surprised to see highs
reach 70F across the southern half of the CWA on Tues or Wed. 

While it falls beyond the gridded forecast period, it's worth
noting that guidance shows a deep trough ejecting onto the Plains
late next week. That will be the next system to keep an eye on 
after this weekend.

&&

.AVIATION...(For the 18Z TAFS through 18Z Thursday afternoon)
Issued at 1224 PM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

Northwest winds persist through the day, with gusts trending
downward after 21z. Winds become light and variable overnight, 
then become east-southeasterly after 12z Thurs. VFR conditions 
expected, with high cloud cover, above 15kft, increasing tonight. 
Will need to monitor the potential for patchy fog development 
tonight. For now, guidance only shows low chances of visbys 
dropping below 5mi, so did not include BR in the TAF at this 
time.


&&

.ILX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
NONE.
&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...Erwin
SHORT TERM...Erwin
LONG TERM...Erwin
AVIATION...Erwin
