991 
FXUS63 KILX 260446
AFDILX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Lincoln IL
1146 PM CDT Tue Oct 25 2022

.SYNOPSIS...
Issued at 308 PM CDT Tue Oct 25 2022

Additional rounds of scattered showers and isolated thunderstorms
are expected to continue through Tuesday night as a low pressure 
system moves through the region. Breezy northwesterly winds are 
expected tonight. The breezy winds continue on Wednesday, with 
clearing skies and temperatures in the upper 50s. Thursday and 
Friday look seasonable, with lighter winds and high temperatures 
in the mid 50s to near 60. After tonight, the next chance of 
rainfall is late Saturday night into Sunday. 

&&

.UPDATE...
Issued at 838 PM CDT Tue Oct 25 2022

As of around 8pm this evening, surface low pressure was analyzed
to be centered near Mattoon. Scattered showers are ongoing across
much of the area, but most numerous near the Illinois River 
Valley where a deformation axis is in place. An additional quarter 
to three quarters of an inch of rain is likely overnight near the 
Illinois River Valley with a quarter inch or less expected
elsewhere. Forcing within this feature will shift northeast 
through the evening and tonight with precip ending from the 
southwest overnight, but not completely exiting the forecast area 
until around daybreak Wednesday morning.

&&

.SHORT TERM...(This evening through Wednesday)
ISSUED AT 308 PM CDT Tue Oct 25 2022

Satellite imagery shows a low pressures system continuing to lift
northeast through the Ozarks. The front across our area continues
to shift slightly east, located between I-55 and I-57 as of 
2pm/19z. Widespread rain continues across the CWA, as the warm 
conveyor belt of the approaching low pressure system pivots 
through the area. RAP mesoanalysis shows low but non-zero MUCAPE 
across eastern IL, where a few embedded t-storms are ongoing/will 
be possible this afternoon with the warm conveyor belt precip. 

A precip free corridor appears likely to pivot through the area
this afternoon/evening, then additional rain chances occur as the
low moves northeast through the area tonight. Ahead of the sfc 
low, clearer skies have allowed a small zone of surface-based 
instability to develop over southern MO, and t-storms have erupted
within that zone over the last hour (to the south of Farmington, 
MO). This zone will pivot through the southeastern half of our CWA
this evening, but by the time it does so diurnal heating will be 
diminishing, so while t-storms may persist the chances of stronger
storms is low. Another frontogenesis zone oriented north-south 
immediately behind the low is producing another band of rainfall 
that will move west to east through the area overnight, bringing 
precip chances to an end as it departs before sunrise on 
Wednesday. Additional rainfall amounts from the precip that occurs
as the low pressure moves through the area tonight will generally
be around 0.25-0.50", although locally higher amounts are 
possible with any t-storms. 

With the low lifting off to the northeast on Wednesday and sfc
high pressure centered over MO/IA, brisk northerly winds will 
keep a chill in the air for much of the day as temps only reach 
the upper 50s. As the sfc high shifts east towards the area, winds
gradually become lighter into the afternoon. Aside from some 
lingering cloud cover in eastern IL Wed AM, mostly sunny skies 
will prevail.

.LONG TERM...(Wednesday night through Tuesday)
ISSUED AT 308 PM CDT Tue Oct 25 2022

For the start of the long term period, a few benign, seasonable
days are expected. By Wed night, sfc high pressure should be 
positioned just north of the area, and the combination of clear 
skies/light winds will result in the coolest night of the week, 
with lows dropping into the upper 30s. That high pressure quickly 
shifts off towards the Great Lakes on Thurs and strengthens as it 
does. Thurs and Fri both look seasonable, with highs in the mid 
50s to near 60F, and lows near 40. Forecast soundings suggest 
rather widespread high cloud cover on Thurs, becoming less 
extensive on Fri.

The next chance of rain will be courtesy of a closed upper low
moving slowly through the southern Plains Fri into the weekend. 
Model guidance remains inconsistent in the precip timing with this
wave. Precip could move in as early as late Sat eve, but the 
chances increase into Sun and diminish into Monday. Based on the 
track of the wave, precip chances decrease from southeast to 
northwest across the CWA. QPF amounts aren't expected to be as 
heavy with this wave, with the latest probabilistic data from the
NBM showing a 35% chance of exceeding 0.25" and less than a 5% 
chance of exceeding 1". Despite this wave passing through the 
region, no major temperature changes are expected through the 
extended forecast. Highs will generally be in the upper 50s to mid
60s with lows in the low 40s. An early look at Halloween night 
suggests temperatures near 50F and minimal impacts from wind or 
precip, although if the upper wave trends slower some light precip
could linger into Halloween night.

&&

.AVIATION...(For the 06Z TAFS through 06Z Wednesday night)
Issued at 1145 PM CDT Tue Oct 25 2022

Low pressure will exit east into Indiana over the next few hours 
allowing showers to continue to diminish in coverage. A broad area 
of IFR/MVFR ceilings will linger for much of the night, but will
gradually clear from the west with VFR conditions and a modest 
northwest breeze expected through the day Wednesday.

&&

.ILX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
NONE.
&&

$$

UPDATE...Deubelbeiss
SYNOPSIS...Erwin
SHORT TERM...Erwin
LONG TERM...Erwin
AVIATION...Deubelbeiss
