711 
FXUS63 KILX 260823
AFDILX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Lincoln IL
323 AM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

.SYNOPSIS...
Issued at 323 AM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

Lingering showers east of I-55 will taper off early this morning,
and will be replaced by clearing skies as high pressure moves 
into the area from the west. Winds from the northwest will gust up
to 30 mph this morning, and slowly taper off this afternoon. Dry 
weather, seasonably cool temperatures, and less wind will continue
through at least Saturday.

&&

.SHORT TERM...(Today and tonight)
ISSUED AT 323 AM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

Outgoing low pressure and associated forcing due to frontogenesis 
behind the system will give way to high pressure moving in from the 
west today. As a result, bands of showers east of I-55 will 
gradually dissipate from west to east early this morning, with 
clear skies arriving. Additional precipitation amounts should be 
fairly inconsequential, with only a tenth or two possible, mainly
east of I-55. A stiff pressure gradient across the area between 
the two pressure features, along with strong northwest winds 
aloft, should result in some brisk winds this morning, although 
momentum transfer to the surface could be limited by shallow 
mixing heights struggling to reach the 925 mb layer. Model 
consensus suggests sustained winds as highs as 15-20 mph range and
gusts around 30 mph to start the day, tapering off to light and 
variable by sunset. Highs should reach mid to upper 50s today, 
followed by mid to upper 30s for lows tonight, with enough mid and
upper level cloud cover to prevent temperatures from falling 
further.

&&

.LONG TERM...(Thursday through Tuesday)
ISSUED AT 323 AM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

High pressure will shift northeastward out of central IL late in
the work week, strengthen, and keep a light east to northeasterly
flow across central IL. Subsidence associated with the high should
keep conditions dry in central IL, and temperatures should be
gradually warming, but overall near normal, ranging from upper 50s
Thursday to mid 60s Saturday.

A shortwave currently in the Pacific Northwest will be the next
potential for precipitation in central IL, digging through the
Rockies and closing off late this week. As the low closes off, it
should also become cut off from mid-latitude flow, which will
likely play a role in predictability of the track and timing of
this system. Nevertheless, model consensus tracks the upper low
into the Ohio Valley by Sunday, opens the wave, and absorbs the
wave into a subtropical jet stream flowing into the northeast US.
Given the forecast track, PoPs peak Sunday ranging from 30 percent
in the Illinois River Valley to 60 percent south of I-70, and
lower PoPs start as early as Saturday night, continuing into
Monday. Precipitation amounts should be much lighter for central
IL, and somewhat lighter in southeast IL than yesterday's system,
with median ensemble precipitation ranging only as high as a
quarter inch in southeast IL. Even 90th percentile ensemble
precipitation is under 3/4 inch in southeast IL, with more
significant 1-2 inch amounts confined to the southeastern states,
thus it would take a significant deviation to current model
forecasts to bring significant precipitation into Illinois.
Temperatures continue to run near normal Sunday through midweek as
this system moves past the area.

&&

.AVIATION...(For the 06Z TAFS through 06Z Wednesday night)
Issued at 1145 PM CDT Tue Oct 25 2022

Low pressure will exit east into Indiana over the next few hours 
allowing showers to continue to diminish in coverage. A broad area 
of IFR/MVFR ceilings will linger for much of the night, but will
gradually clear from the west with VFR conditions and a modest 
northwest breeze expected through the day Wednesday.

&&

.ILX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
NONE.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...37
SHORT TERM...37
LONG TERM...37
AVIATION...Deubelbeiss
