134 
FXUS66 KPQR 262214
AFDPQR

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Portland OR
304 PM PDT Wed Oct 26 2022


.SYNOPSIS...An upper ridge moving in tonight, however leftover
moisture will keep in some areas of light rain, especially over WA 
into far northwestern OR. Upper troughing will once again becomes 
dominant near the west coast of North America and pushes a series of 
systems into the area, resulting in a cool and wet weekend and early 
next week.

&&

.SHORT TERM...Tonight through Saturday night...Showers are decreasing
in coverage across southwestern WA and northwestern OR as an upper
ridge moves inland. However, a slight perturbation in the flow this
afternoon moving into Washington will keep areas of light rain
spreading inland over southern WA and far northwestern OR. After
today's cool day, temperatures tonight will drop below what readings
were seen this morning. However clouds are expected to be over the
area for most of the night if not all night, so this should prohibit
any frost sensitive areas from getting that cold. NBM was the coldest
of the guidance, and since it was too cold last night and today, will
make sure to go warmer than the frost concern range (33-37 degrees). 
As the upper ridge pushes east tomorrow, flow will go southwesterly
ahead of a trough moving through the north Pacific, helping to warm
temperatures 5 to 10 degrees. This will create a southerly gradient,
bringing some locally warmer areas in the southern Willamette Valley.
Southerly winds will also be increasing along the coast, with gusts
of 15 to 25 mph. At the same time, the upper trough will have helped
pull in an elongated area of subtropical moisture into WA and drop it
south through the day. As the trough starts dropping a little more to
push precipitation into the forecast area starting Thursday night,
even warmer air will be advecting in on the southwesterly flow. Snow
levels are expected to raise into the 6500-7500 ft range Thursday
night into Friday. Over the Thursday through Friday time period of
this rainband dropping over the forecast area, amounts of 0.5-1.2
inches are expected to fall, mainly focused north and west of a line
from Eugene to Detroit.  The system will continue to sink south and
weaken for Saturday, for a cool cloudy day with areas of light rain. 

.LONG TERM...Sunday through Wednesday...All longer term models and
their ensembles show a larger upper trough starting to drop over the
Pacific Northwest for Sunday into early next week. While they
disagree on how deep the trough dives, the result will be a cooler,
wetter, and windier weather pattern for early next week.  /Kriederman


&&

.AVIATION...18Z TAF: An upper level trough sliding southeastward 
across the Pacific Northwest will result in primarily VFR 
conditions with generally only brief and isolated dips into MVFR 
thresholds near or under showers through 00z Thursday. Fog, dense 
at times, has developed around KHIO, but it will continue to 
dissipate through the morning. The challenge there though is that 
the terminal is seeing variable light winds which does not aid in 
mixing conditions. Once more clearing occurs like elsewhere in the
Willamette Valley, the daytime heating should assist in mixing 
out the fog. Radar shows that precipitation is generally coming to
an end with only isolated showers popping up through the area. 
The terrain will likely see most of the continued precipitation 
but not expected to persist much longer. Towards the end of the 
forecast a weak warm front will advance towards the coast which 
will promote increased cloud cover and possible precipitation. Hi-
resolution models do keep the rain further to the north. 

Towards the end of the period, forecast soundings are showing
winds beginning to increase from the west at around 1000 ft to
around 20-25 kt or so.

For detailed Pac NW aviation weather information, go online to:
http://weather.gov/zse

KPDX AND APPROACHES...VFR conditions through much of the forecast
as the showers have dissipated and clouds are following suit. May
still see showers popping up from time to time which could lower 
CIGs temporarily to MVFR levels. Overnight, could see some patchy 
fog right long the Columbia, but hi- resolution guidance is not 
clear on this probability. -Muessle
	

&&

.MARINE...Showers have continued to dissipate, but a cold front is
advancing towards the waters on Thursday. Expecting another round
of choppy seas and increased winds with this system as it takes on
a typical winter pattern. Winds will transition to the south on
Thursday early afternoon, intensifying with the frontal passage.
Will likely see the strongest winds along the immediate coast, but
still expecting near gale force winds in the far northern portions
of PZZ251. Did not issue a gale watch at this time as the area of
concern is small, and current forecasts are marginal on meeting
thresholds. However, following the increased winds, seas will
build behind the front. Will see a westerly wind transition which
will support higher wave heights. Looking at combined seas
building from around 10 ft upwards of 13 to 15 ft at 14 seconds in
the north. PZZ273 and 253 may see seas around 15 ft, but are
trending slightly lower likely due to the orientation of the
front. A hazardous seas watch has been issued for Cape Foulweather
north. As it stands, seas are sitting right at the 15 ft at 14
second mark, but there is around a 40% chance that we will see
hazardous seas. One challenging component is the timing of this
front. In the case of the southern marine zones, the winds may let
up before the seas really begin to build, so there may be a period
of sub small craft advisory levels.

Expect stronger tidal currents than normal during the evening ebb
cycle through Saturday. Those moving in and out of harbors and 
crossing coastal bars should use caution and be aware of any bar 
restrictions in place.						     
		   -Muessle

&&

.PQR WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...

OR...None.
WA...None.
PZ...Small Craft Advisory until 9 PM PDT this evening for Columbia 
     River Bar.

     Small Craft Advisory until 5 PM PDT Thursday for coastal waters 
     from Cape Shoalwater WA to Cape Foulweather OR out 10 
     nm.coastal waters from Cape Shoalwater WA to Cape 
     Foulweather OR from 10 to 60 nm.

     Hazardous Seas Watch from Thursday afternoon through Friday 
     morning for coastal waters from Cape Shoalwater WA to Cape 
     Foulweather OR out 10 nm.coastal waters from Cape 
     Shoalwater WA to Cape Foulweather OR from 10 to 60 nm.

     Small Craft Advisory until 11 AM PDT Friday for coastal waters 
     from Cape Foulweather OR to Florence OR out 60 nm.
&&

$$

www.weather.gov/portland

Interact with us via social media:
www.facebook.com/NWSPortland
www.twitter.com/NWSPortland
