534 
FXUS66 KPQR 261812 AAA
AFDPQR

Area Forecast Discussion...UPDATED
National Weather Service Portland OR
1112 AM PDT Wed Oct 26 2022

.UPDATE...Showers continue to decrease in intensity and 
coverage across the area. While some very localized spots in the
higher Cascades will find themselves under showers and may 
receive an additional inch or so through the day, Advisory level
impacts are not expected anymore, so have cancelled the Winter 
Weather Advisory. 							-Kriederman

&&

.SYNOPSIS...
Active weather continues today as a weak front pushes
through the region resulting in another round of rain for the
lowlands and snow above 4000 feet. A brief pause in precipitation is
expected tonight through late Thursday morning, but the next system
is expected Thursday evening with a series of systems following,
which will result in a wet weekend and early next week.

&&

.SHORT TERM...Today through Friday night...The active weather 
pattern continues through today, but a slight break in 
precipitation is expected tonight through late Thursday morning.
Expect snowfall to continue for portions of the Washington and 
Oregon Cascades this morning with an additional 1 to 4 inches of
snow expected through this afternoon. Therefore have extended 
the current Winter Weather Advisory. Conditions along the passes
will likely be slippery and caution should be taken on those 
roads. Otherwise, widespread cloud cover and lingering moisture 
will help keep the region cool, with daytime highs in the mid 
30s to mid 40s for the Cascades and mid 40s to mid 50s 
elsewhere. Showery precipitation will continue to slowly 
dissipate through daybreak as a ridge of high pressure develops.
As this ridge develops, expect a slow warming and drying trend 
which will cause daytime high temperatures on Thursday to warm 
into the mid 40s to mid 50s for the Cascades and into the low 
50s and 60s for elsewhere. This warm and dry period will be 
rather short lived as the next series of systems are expected to
slide into the region starting Thursday afternoon and 
continuing into the weekend. The system coming down the western 
coast of Canada towards the end of the week looks to also 
coincide with a weak atmospheric river with IVT values greater 
than 250 kg/(mg). This atmospheric river will help bring an 
influx of warm, moist, tropical air into the region which will 
cause snow levels to rise towards 6000-7000 feet by late 
Friday/early Saturday and could result in additional 
precipitation values from 0.25 inches to 1.50 inches by Saturday
night. 													-42

.LONG TERM...Saturday through Wednesday...WPC Cluster analysis
show a larger upper trough started to drop down the Canadian coast
during the weekend while still having a good connection to an
atmospheric river of moisture.	This looks to end up potentially
bringing a more significant and wetter system for Sunday along with
some stronger winds. The wet pattern looks to continue into early
next week for a normal active fall pattern to last. -Kriederman


&&

.AVIATION...18Z TAF: An upper level trough sliding southeastward 
across the Pacific Northwest will result in primarily VFR 
conditions with generally only brief and isolated dips into MVFR 
thresholds near or under showers through 00z Thursday. Fog, dense
at times, has developed around KHIO, but it will continue to
dissipate through the morning. The challenge there though is that
the terminal is seeing variable light winds which does not aid in
mixing conditions. Once more clearing occurs like elsewhere in 
the Willamette Valley, the daytime heating should assist in mixing
out the fog. Radar shows that precipitation is generally coming 
to an end with only isolated showers popping up through the area. 
The terrain will likely see most of the continued precipitation 
but not expected to persist much longer. Towards the end of the 
forecast a weak warm front will advance towards the coast which 
will promote increased cloud cover and possible precipitation. Hi-
resolution models do keep the rain further to the north. 

Towards the end of the period, forecast soundings are showing
winds beginning to increase from the west at around 1000 ft to
around 20-25 kt or so.

For detailed Pac NW aviation weather information, go online to:
http://weather.gov/zse

KPDX AND APPROACHES...VFR conditions through much of the forecast
as the showers have dissipated and clouds are following suit. May
still see showers popping up from time to time which could lower 
CIGs temporarily to MVFR levels. Overnight, could see some patchy 
fog right long the Columbia, but hi- resolution guidance is not 
clear on this probability. -Muessle
	
&&

.MARINE...UPDATE: In the central waters around PZ46050 have
held onto those seas a bit longer around 14 ft at 11 seconds. Have
decided to maintain the small craft advisory instead of upgrading
to a hazardous seas warning as seas are beginning to ease.
Previous discussion follows.

The cold front that brought strong winds to the waters yesterday 
is now well inland and pushing into the Rocky Mountain states. 
High pressure will gradually build into the waters today into 
tonight. This will lead to decreasing winds and continue to allow 
seas to subside. Expect seas to fall below 10 ft this afternoon or
evening. 

However, the next cold front will slowly sag southeastward across
the waters Thursday into Friday. Expect gusty southerly winds to
return to the waters ahead of the front. The strongest winds will
be across the northern waters. There is a 50% chance for low end 
Gale Force wind gusts of 35 kt to materialize across the northern 
waters Thursday afternoon or evening. Given the time between now 
and then, and the uncertainty, will hold off on a Gale Watch for 
now. Even if these winds do not materialize, current wave model 
guidance suggests a period of hazardous seas will occur across the
northern waters late Thursday as well. Given the slow moving 
nature of the front, the resulting swell spreading into the waters
will also be slow to subside. At this point, it appears seas 
should drop below 10 ft Saturday night or Sunday. However, the 
next cold front appears likely to drop southeastward towards the 
region Sunday night or Monday. This has a higher potential of 
producing stronger winds and higher seas across the waters. GEFS 
wave model guidance suggests there's a 20-30% chance for seas to 
eclipse 20 ft Monday/Tuesday. 

Expect stronger tidal currents than normal during the evening ebb
cycle through Saturday. Those moving in and out of harbors and 
crossing coastal bars should use caution and be aware of any bar 
restrictions in place. -Muessle/Neuman

&&

.PQR WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
OR...None.
WA...None.
PZ...Small Craft Advisory until 9 PM PDT this evening for PZZ210-
     253-273.
     Small Craft Advisory until 5 PM PDT Thursday for PZZ251-252-
     271-272.
&&

$$

www.weather.gov/portland

Interact with us via social media:
www.facebook.com/NWSPortland
www.twitter.com/NWSPortland
