442 
FXUS66 KPQR 261141
AFDPQR

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Portland OR 
440 AM PDT Wed Oct 26 2022

.SYNOPSIS...Active weather continues today as a weak front pushes
through the region resulting in another round of rain for the
lowlands and snow above 4000 feet. A brief pause in precipitation is
expected tonight through late Thursday morning, but the next system
is expected Thursday evening with a series of systems following,
which will result in a wet weekend and early next week.

&&

.SHORT TERM...Today through Friday night...The active weather pattern
continues through today, but a slight break in precipitation is
expected tonight through late Thursday morning. Expect snowfall to
continue for portions of the Washington and Oregon Cascades this
morning with an additional 1 to 4 inches of snow expected through
this afternoon. Therefore have extended the current Winter Weather
Advisory. Conditions along the passes will likely be slippery and
caution should be taken on those roads. Otherwise, widespread cloud
cover and lingering moisture will help keep the region cool, with
daytime highs in the mid 30s to mid 40s for the Cascades and mid 40s
to mid 50s elsewhere. Showery precipitation will continue to slowly
dissipate through daybreak as a ridge of high pressure develops. As
this ridge develops, expect a slow warming and drying trend which
will cause daytime high temperatures on Thursday to warm into the
mid 40s to mid 50s for the Cascades and into the low 50s and 60s for
elsewhere. This warm and dry period will be rather short lived as the
next series of systems are expected to slide into the region starting
Thursday afternoon and continuing into the weekend. The system coming
down the western coast of Canada towards the end of the week looks to
also coincide with a weak atmospheric river with IVT values greater
than 250 kg/(mg). This atmospheric river will help bring an influx of
warm, moist, tropical air into the region which will cause snow
levels to rise towards 6000-7000 feet by late Friday/early Saturday
and could result in additional precipitation values from 0.25 inches
to 1.50 inches by Saturday night. /42

.LONG TERM...Saturday through Wednesday...WPC Cluster analysis
show a larger upper trough started to drop down the Canadian coast
during the weekend while still having a good connection to an
atmospheric river of moisture.	This looks to end up potentially
bringing a more significant and wetter system for Sunday along with
some stronger winds. The wet pattern looks to continue into early
next week for a normal active fall pattern to last. /Kriederman

&&

.AVIATION...An upper level trough sliding southeastward across 
the Pacific Northwest will result in primarily VFR conditions with
generally only brief and isolated dips into MVFR thresholds near
or under showers through 00z Thursday. In addition, brief dips
into LIFR and IFR thresholds appear likely to occur through 
16-18z Wednesday across the western Willamette Valley,
particularly at KHIO, as light winds and plenty of low level 
moisture allow fog to try and form between clouds/showers through
daybreak. Otherwise, expect shower coverage to decrease from 
south to north today. A weak warm front will slide into far 
northwest Oregon and western Washington tonight. HREF guidance 
suggests a 40-70% chance for MVFR ceilings to form along the 
coast and across interior southwest Washington towards 06-12z 
Thursday. Meanwhile, the probabilities for IFR ceilings forming 
in these same areas climbs into the 20-40% range towards 12z 
Thursday per the HREF.

KPDX AND APPROACHES...An upper level trough sliding southeastward
across the Pacific Northwest will result in primarily VFR 
conditions with generally only brief and isolated dips into MVFR 
thresholds near or under showers through 00z Thursday. A warm 
front pushing into western Washington will bring a 20% chance for 
MVFR ceilings forming at the terminal towards 06-12z Thursday. 
/Neuman 

&&

.MARINE...The cold front that brought strong winds to the waters
yesterday is now well inland and pushing into the Rocky Mountain
states. High pressure will gradually build into the waters today 
into tonight. This will lead to decreasing winds and continue to 
allow seas to subside. Expect seas to fall below 10 ft this 
afternoon or evening. 

However, the next cold front will slowly sag southeastward across
the waters Thursday into Friday. Expect gusty southerly winds to
return to the waters ahead of the front. The strongest winds will
be across the northern waters. There is a 50% chance for low end 
Gale Force wind gusts of 35 kt to materialize across the northern 
waters Thursday afternoon or evening. Given the time between now 
and then, and the uncertainty, will hold off on a Gale Watch for 
now. Even if these winds do not materialize, current wave model 
guidance suggests a period of hazardous seas will occur across the
northern waters late Thursday as well. Given the slow moving 
nature of the front, the resulting swell spreading into the waters
will also be slow to subside. At this point, it appears seas 
should drop below 10 ft Saturday night or Sunday. However, the 
next cold front appears likely to drop southeastward towards the 
region Sunday night or Monday. This has a higher potential of 
producing stronger winds and higher seas across the waters. GEFS 
wave model guidance suggests there's a 20-30% chance for seas to 
eclipse 20 ft Monday/Tuesday. 

Expect stronger tidal currents than normal during the evening ebb
cycle through Saturday. Those moving in and out of harbors and 
crossing coastal bars should use caution and be aware of any bar 
restrictions in place. /Neuman

&&

.PQR WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...

OR...Winter Weather Advisory until 1 PM PDT this afternoon for 
     Cascades in Lane County-Northern Oregon Cascades.

WA...Winter Weather Advisory until 1 PM PDT this afternoon for South 
     Washington Cascades.

PZ...Small Craft Advisory until 9 PM PDT this evening for Coastal 
     waters from Cape Foulweather to Florence OR out 10 NM-
     Columbia River Bar-Waters from Cape Foulweather to Florence 
     OR from 10 to 60 NM.

     Small Craft Advisory until 5 PM PDT Thursday for coastal waters 
     from Cape Shoalwater WA to Cape Foulweather OR out 10 
     nm.coastal waters from Cape Shoalwater WA to Cape 
     Foulweather OR from 10 to 60 nm.
&&

$$

www.weather.gov/portland

Interact with us via social media:
www.facebook.com/NWSPortland
www.twitter.com/NWSPortland
