344 
FXUS66 KPQR 260424 AAB
AFDPQR

Area Forecast Discussion...UPDATED
National Weather Service Portland OR 
923 PM PDT Tue Oct 25 2022

Updated aviation section for 06Z TAFs

.SYNOPSIS...A weather system will push through tonight to bring
accumulating snow over 4000 feet and rain elsewhere. Showers will 
return each day Thursday before another stronger system arrives to
bring a wet weekend. 

&&

.SHORT TERM...Tonight through Friday...As a vigorous upper trough
dives south near Vancouver Island this afternoon, satellite and radar
show the frontal band pushing into our northern waters this
afternoon. Stratiform precipitation is filling in ahead of this
front, spreading east and south, with snow levels currently around
4500-5000 feet MSL. While we've already had some lightning along and
ahead of the front, good cloud top cooling evident on satellite shows
the continued potential for lightning especially over the waters this
evening. This cloud top cooling is also reflecting the good dynamics
of this system, which is expected to bring most of the rain/snow
expected over the area more in a relatively short amount of time.
This will include the snowfall expected over the high mountains
tonight, which are under a Winter Weather Advisory.  Southwesterly
winds ahead of the front, gusting to 35 mph at Buoy 29, will spread
inland late this afternoon into the evening. This will align well
into the Willamette Valley to bring similar gusts along with
increasing rain for around rush hour time as well.  While HREF shows
the thunder chances decreasing into the evening, especially into
inland areas, enough mixed layer CAPE and shear will exist to keep
the chance to slight chance of thunder into the evening and early
morning. Snow accumulations around 6 to 10 inches of snow are
expected around pass level tonight, along with gusty winds along the
front to potentially impact visibilities. 

Weather will turn to showers behind the frontal passage and continue
into Wednesday. With northwesterly flow, look for temperatures to be
cooler than average. An upper ridge will then push up over the area
Wednesday night into Thursday. Skies clearing Wednesday night will
lead to colder readings as well. Flow aloft will turn southwesterly
to bring warmer temperatures for Thursday, before a decaying weather
system drops down into WA and potentially into OR and stalls into
Friday. Will have to watch the evolution of this system and how much
precipitation would be involved if it did just sit over one area as
both the GFS and EC deterministic models show. NBM currently has
0.5-1.25 inches across southwestern WA and northwestern OR for the 48
hour period.  

.LONG TERM...Friday night through Saturday...WPC Cluster analysis
show a larger upper trough started to drop down the Canadian coast
during the weekend while still having a good connection to an
atmospheric river of moisture.	This looks to end up potentially
bringing a more significant and wetter system for Sunday along with
some stronger winds. The wet pattern looks to continue into early
next week for a normal active fall pattern to last. /Kriederman

&&

.AVIATION...06Z TAF preliminary thoughts: An upper trough 
continues to dig south over the PacNW as of 04Z. The associated
cold front is now fully east of I-5 across NW Oregon and is nearly
fully east of the Cascade Crest from KEUG northward. Moderate
showers continue in the wake of the front and expect these will
continue until the upper trough axis crosses region as well.
Expect this will occur in the 06-09Z timeframe. Raw model and
associated text guidance shows a strong likelihood of MVFR conds 
or better remaining through the remainder of the night. Might get 
some brief MVFR 015-025 cigs from the remaining passing showers, 
however. Showers will taper off for several hours beginning 
shortly after daybreak at 1440Z under brief passing high pressure.
A warm front then impinges upon the PacNW and brings light rain 
and/or light showers to the coast near 22Z, and then further 
inland closer to 27/00Z. However, indications are conditions will 
remain VFR through 27/06Z.

KPDX AND APPROACHES...Now that the front has passed, may see some
brief MVFR cigs at 025-030 under passing showers through 07Z, then
continued visual approach restrictions with cigs at FL040 and 
lower through 16Z. Otherwise, no concerns through 27/06Z. /JBonk


&&

.MARINE...Winds are hovering around 33 kt at the buoys as of 3 PM
Tuesday. Will not upgrade to a Gale Warning as conditions will be
intermittent and not widespread. However, gusty winds with 
isolated thunderstorms are likely across the waters through this 
evening. Buoy 46005 which is currently in the path of the 
strongest winds is observing wave heights of 17 ft at 11 seconds. 
GFS Wave is resolving these conditions well which increases 
confidence for seas to build into the 13-15 ft range with a 
dominant period of 11 seconds during the overnight hours producing
steep and hazardous conditions. Have issued a Hazardous Seas 
Warning during this time. 

Winds and seas will gradually ease Wednesday morning as transient
high pressure moves over the area. This will bring quieter weather
Wednesday into Thursday. Will see more fronts arriving to close 
the week. Likely to have gale force winds at times on Friday. 
Seas will also be on the rise, with seas 15 to 18 ft late Thursday 
night and Friday. Active weather continues through the coming 
weekend. 

The new moon on Tuesday will continue to produce strong tidal 
currents during the evening ebb cycle. Those moving in and out of 
harbors and crossing coastal bars should use caution and be aware 
of any bar restrictions in place. -BMuhlestein

&&

.PQR WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...

OR...Winter Weather Advisory until 6 AM PDT Wednesday for Cascades in 
     Lane County-Northern Oregon Cascades.

WA...Winter Weather Advisory until 5 AM PDT Wednesday for South 
     Washington Cascades.

PZ...Small Craft Advisory until 6 PM PDT Wednesday for coastal waters 
     from Cape Shoalwater WA to Florence OR out 10 nm.Columbia 
     River Bar.

     Small Craft Advisory until 8 PM PDT this evening for coastal 
     waters from Cape Shoalwater WA to Florence OR from 10 to 60 
     nm.

     Small Craft Advisory from 8 AM to 6 PM PDT Wednesday for coastal 
     waters from Cape Shoalwater WA to Florence OR from 10 to 60 
     nm.

     Hazardous Seas Warning from 8 PM this evening to 8 AM PDT 
     Wednesday for coastal waters from Cape Shoalwater WA to 
     Florence OR from 10 to 60 nm.
&&


$$

www.weather.gov/portland

Interact with us via social media:
www.facebook.com/NWSPortland
www.twitter.com/NWSPortland
