042 
FXUS66 KMFR 260403
AFDMFR

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Medford OR
903 PM PDT Tue Oct 25 2022

.DISCUSSION...A front  will move across the area tonight bringing
light to locally moderate precipitation. An upper trough will 
move in behind the front with lingering showers Wednesday morning 
into Wednesday afternoon. Shower activity on Wednesday will be 
most focused over the Southern Oregon Cascades, Umpqua and coast 
range. Snow levels, which are currently around 5500 feet this
evening, will lower to between 4000 and 4500 feet with the 
frontal passage late tonight and early Wednesday morning. So, 
expect light snow accumulations over the Cascade passes, 
especially above 4500 feet. Some locally moderate accumulations
are possible over higher elevations, such as near Crater Lake. For
additional details on this weather system, please see the previous
discussion below. 

Models and ensembles then show a brief break in the active 
pattern late Wednesday and Thursday as weak ridging builds into 
the area and brings dry weather. A lingering cool air mass 
combined with light winds and clearing skies may bring frost 
concerns to western valleys though. Guidance currently supports a 
potential for freezing temperatures Wednesday night and early 
Thursday morning in the Shasta and Scott Valleys. Also valleys in 
Jackson and Josephine Counties may see some locations lower into 
the low to mid 30s Wednesday night, especially in the Illinois, 
Applegate and outlying areas of the Rogue Valley. 


&&

.AVIATION...26/00Z TAFs...VFR will linger for most of the area this 
morning. But, the next front will arrive at the coast this evening 
between 02-04z. Expect MVFR/IFR conditions with mountain obscuration 
and light to moderate precipitation to accompany this front and 
spread inland as the front crosses the area overnight into Wednesday 
morning. Conditions will improve Wednesday afternoon with VFR 
expected into the early evening. -DW

&&

.MARINE...Updated 800 PM PDT Tuesday 25 October 2022...Conditions 
hazardous to small craft will continue through at least Wednesday 
afternoon. Seas will slightly diminish for a brief period this 
evening, but the break isn't long enough to warrant dropping the 
advisory. Another long period northwest swell moves in quickly late 
tonight and lingers through Wednesday afternoon. Seas diminish late 
Wednesday and conditions will remain relatively improved through at 
least Thursday afternoon with swell dominated seas hovering around 7 
to 8 ft during that time. 

The next swell train is expected to arrive sometime between Thursday 
evening and early Friday morning. Despite the differences in timing, 
guidance has come into better agreement with this swell, peaking it 
between 12 and 14 ft at 14 to 15 seconds. This will bring the return 
of conditions hazardous to small craft by Thursday evening. Seas are 
expected to remain steep and elevated through the weekend with 
active weather continuing through then. /BR-y


&&

.PREV DISCUSSION... /Issued 215 PM PDT Tue Oct 25 2022/ 

SYNOPSIS...Southern Oregon and Northern California will remain 
in a relatively progressive pattern with a series of disturbances 
moving across the area over the next several days with breaks in 
between. A period of activity is expected tonight when a front 
moves onshore this evening into tonight. This will bring another 
round of snow for the high Cascades and gusty conditions there and
across the east side. 

SHORT TERM...Through Thursday morning, 10/27/2022...Temperatures
this afternoon have been greatly impacted by low clouds hanging 
on in valleys and causing cooler than forecast conditions. 
Meanwhile along the coast and a lot of the higher terrain, 
clearing skies have allowed temperatures to trend towards their 
afternoon forecasts. Some changes to the daytime temps were made 
for this afternoon to lower temperatures where clouds have held 
out. 

For tonight's Min-temperature forecast, temperatures were adjusted up 
a few degrees. With this bump up and the incoming cloud cover, frost 
should be of no concern in any valley locations. However, freezing 
conditions could settle in even at elevations around 4000-4500 feet, 
where the snow level will hover at its lowest tonight. 

Most of the rain from the incoming front will be contained to the 
Coast Range, Cascades & Siskiyous, and valleys north of the Umpqua 
Divide. A west-northwest flow regime favors the greatest upsloping 
along the Cascades where precipitation will be concentrated, mainly 
as snow. The coast range is expected to receive around 0.25"-0.50" 
through wednesday morning, with the Umpqua Basin forecast to receive 
around 0.20". Elsewhere, 0.10" is the high end of the precipitation 
forecast. There is a low chance for very isolated thunder with this 
front and mainly for the area from Roseburg west to the coast  and 
as far south as the Camas Valley & Powers.

As for snowfall, when precipitation starts to arrive in earnest 
around 8 PM PDT tonight the snow level will be around 5000-5500 feet 
in the Cascades. Over the next six hours the snow levels will fall 
to around 4000-4500 feet. As they fall, the heaviest snowfall is 
expected with the latest guidance maintaining the 40% chance for 
1"/hr snowfall rates near Diamond Lake and Willamette Pass due to 
the convective nature of this front from 11 PM PDT and 2 AM PDT. 
Again, during the heaviest snowfall rates winds will be peaking in 
the 25-35 mph range and could cause reduced visibility due to 
blowing snow. With the longer lasting cold temperatures at these 
passes, snow sticking to the roads will become more likely and could 
last into the early morning.

A ridge will build into the area cutting off the moist northwest 
flow on Wednesday. Snow levels will come up to 4400-4700 feet 
Wednesday morning and remain there through the day with accumulating 
precipitation lingering mainly in the high Cascades. Otherwise, 
accumulating precipitation is only expected where clouds become 
impacted on ridgelines and cause foggy and drizzly conditions. Skies 
will generally remain cloudy except across NorCal where more blue 
sky is expected. These clearing skies and colder airmass draining 
into the region means that the best chance for frost exists across 
the valleys of NorCal, but less so in SW Oregon except for the 
Illinois Valley. Where frost isn't expected in the SW Oregon 
valleys, fog is more likely to form. Freezing fog in the east side 
valleys around rivers can't be ruled out. 
-Miles 

LONG TERM...Thursday through Tuesday, Oct 27-Nov 1, 2022...The 
pattern will remain mostly progressive with an active Pacific jet 
stream sending multiple disturbances into the PacNW during the 
period. Most of these will be arriving from the WNW, so 
precipitation is favored from the Cascades/Siskiyous north and west 
with lighter amounts S&E of the mountains. No big shots of cold air 
are expected, so snow levels will mostly be in the 4000-6000 foot 
range. A brief period of higher snow levels (up around 7000-8000 
feet) is expected late this week into the weekend before a colder 
system moves in early next week.

We'll start the period in between systems with a short wave upper 
ridge moving in overhead Thursday. After a chilly morning with areas 
of fog and perhaps even some west side frost, high pressure will 
bring a mostly dry day. Low clouds/fog may linger into the early 
afternoon for some of those western valleys. 

In the midst of the progressive pattern, weak split flow will 
develop Thursday night into Friday as the next frontal system 
approaches the Northwest Coast. This just means that one disturbance 
will carry its energy to our south while the northern branch feature 
fizzles as it heads into Idaho and Montana Friday into the weekend. 
We're left in between with a dying front at the coast. This could 
lead to a little precipitation across our northern and western zones 
Friday night into Saturday, but the vast majority of precip from 
this system will miss our area. 

The next stronger front, aided by a 140-kt Pacific jet, will arrive 
in the PacNW Sunday night into Monday, gradually moving through SW 
Oregon and into norCal Monday night into Tuesday. This one stands a 
better shot at bringing more widespread precipitation to the region, 
but there are still some significant differences in the guidance, 
making the Halloween night forecast uncertain. Some clusters are 
showing amplification of the trough into the West, which would slow 
the front down and maybe enhance precip, while others remain 
progressive with another quick-hitting front. We still have many 
days to see how that plays out. 

Either way though, after such a long dry spell and unseasonable 
warmth, it's nice to see that we are now fully into the fall pattern 
across the PacNW with no big warm ups in sight. Precipitation is a 
bit of a wild card, since there really hasn't been a lot south and 
east of the mountains since mid-September. The Climate Prediction 
Center maintains, however, that odds favor above normal precip in 
the PacNW right into the first week of November. -Spilde


&&

.MFR WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
OR...CA...None.
Pacific Coastal Waters...Small Craft Advisory until 11 PM PDT Wednesday for PZZ350-356-
     370-376.

&&

$$

CC/CC/CC
