054 
FXUS66 KMFR 262128
AFDMFR

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Medford OR
228 PM PDT Wed Oct 26 2022

.SYNOPSIS...Southern Oregon and Northern California will remain in a 
relatively progressive pattern with a series of disturbances moving 
across the area over the next week with breaks in between.
A weak ridge of high pressure briefly returns tonight through 
Thursday night. As a result, expect wide-spread frosts and possibly 
a freeze for portions of the West Side Valleys tonight. Another 
front will approach the coast Friday.

&&

.SHORT TERM...Through Saturday morning, 10/29/2022...Mainly 
benign weather is expected during the next 36 hours and the clear 
skies from building high pressure will allow temperatures to be 
pretty cold. Cold enough for a widespread freeze for much of the 
West Side California Valleys tonight, including the Klamath River 
Valley, the Shasta Valley, and the area south of Mt. Shasta in 
Siskiyou County. This should be at least the second heavy freeze of 
this autumn and we are expecting it to put an end to the growing 
season and thus we anticipate ending freeze warnings for that area 
until next spring.  In addition, for areas of Oregon, including the 
Rogue, Illinois, and Applegate Valleys expect a widespread frost 
tonight. There will likely be an isolated area at the southern 
portion of the Illinois Valley near O'brien and Takilma where 
freezing temperatures are likely in an area too isolated for its own 
freeze warning. Please see the NPWMFR for more details.

Temperatures will warm back into the 60s during the afternoon on 
Thursday for most areas west of the Cascades and into the mid-50s
for the East Side. This is somewhat dependent upon where fog and 
frost forms tonight. If the frost is heavy enough it may prevent 
fog from forming and for that reason we expect fog to be more 
patchy in nature. While east of the Cascades freezing fog may form
before a frost is able to develop. Areas of fog are anticipated 
for the Umpqua and Coquille Valley tonight too.

The pattern returns to a more progressive one on Friday as the large 
scale flow turns westerly in response to a split flow pattern 
between a broad area of low pressure over British Columbia and a 
pocket of low pressure forming offshore of the Bay Area. This will 
cause the front to stall offshore on Friday. Clouds will stream into 
the area, but the chance for rain is contained west of the Coast 
Range at a 30-50% chance for light (0.01"-0.10") rain. For th rest 
of the area, increased high clouds will be the main observable trait 
for the front. 

The front stalling on Friday will also allow temperatures to warm 
further. For the West Side temperatures are forecast into the mid-
and-upper 60s, even the 70s for the lower Klamath River Valley. And 
for the East Side temperatures near 60 are expected. This will also 
keep winds calmer across the region. 

Friday night a reinforcing wave will approach the backside of the
front a nudging it closer to our area into Saturday morning. 
However, it will largely remain stationary. This will increase the
chance for light rains west of the Cascades, but a true wetting 
rain will remain contained to the coast.
-Miles 

.LONG TERM...Saturday night into Thursday.

A cold front turned stationary front is expected to cover sections 
of our coastline.  This should result in precipitation along 
sections of the coast and the Umpqua Basing.  The probabilities for 
rain decrease the farther south and east one travels. Impacts should 
remain minor here, although some trick or treaters along the coast 
will likely have to brave some light rain Saturday evening into 
Saturday night.

The cooler northwest flow persists behind the stationary front.  The 
front begins to move south eastward and dissipates into Sunday.  It 
seems we should dry out for a period of Sunday, although the NBM and 
ensembles suggest the chance of rain persisting for most of Sunday 
ahead of the next upper level wave and cold front.  The probability 
of precipitation maximizes after 0z Sunday and is generally around 
50 to 70 percent west of the Cascades when the next front moves in 
around mid day Monday.  People in Modoc County will eventually have 
a 20% - 30% chance of rain around Monday morning and afternoon.

Heading into Tuesday, an upper level low will likely be overhead, 
although the depth of the trough is still uncertain.  In any case, 
temperatures will trend cooler with high temperatures roughly 10 
degrees cooler than normal for the region.  Snow levels will drop 
down to the 4000 - 5000 foot level with some light snow over the 
Cascades and other higher terrain.

Heading into the Wednesday to Thursday timeframe,  the synoptic 
details are pretty hard to parse out. However, the ensembles are 
favoring some more precipitation across the region.  The 48 hour QPF 
we have right now ending at 12Z Thursday is showing about 0.5 inches 
of rain west of the Cascades with up to an additional 1 inch of rain 
along the coast.  Rain totals should around 0.25 inches east of the 
Cascades.  There are a small set of ensemble members showing drier 
conditions from Tuesday into Thursday, although that forecast is 
definitely in the minority.

-Smith

&&

.AVIATION...26/18Z TAFs...Mostly VFR this afternoon, except 
local MVFR and higher terrain obscurations. Tonight into Thursday 
morning, expect areas of coastal and valley IFR in fog/low clouds. 
Conditions improve to VFR Thursday afternoon. -Spilde

&&

.MARINE...Updated 200 PM PDT Wednesday 26 October 2022...Swell 
dominated seas of 10 to 14 feet at 12 seconds will persist through 
late this evening. Conditions improve overnight into Thursday with 
seas dropping below advisory levels -- generally down to around 6 to 
8 feet at 10 seconds. Another high and steep long period northwest 
swell will arrive Thursday and persist Friday. Guidance continues to 
show this swell peaking between 12 and 14 ft at 14 to 15 seconds. A 
cold front moves in over the waters Friday with rain likely, 
especially in the north, then the front weakens into Saturday. Seas 
gradually subside this weekend, but will remain hazardous to small 
craft. 

The next high and steep long period swell is possible Sunday 
night into Monday. EC/GEFS wave ensemble guidance are indicating 
this could be an even higher swell train than the one Thursday into 
Friday. Mean wave heights are indicated in the 13 to 17 foot range 
with a small probability of wave heights exceeding 20 ft. This one 
could also have a long enough period for beach hazard concerns. 
There is still quite a bit of spread in the members, so stay tuned 
for updates. -Spilde

&&

.MFR WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
OR...Frost Advisory from 3 AM to 10 AM PDT Thursday for ORZ023-024-
     026.

CA...Freeze Warning from 3 AM to 10 AM PDT Thursday for CAZ080>082.

Pacific Coastal Waters...Small Craft Advisory until 11 PM PDT this evening for PZZ350-356-
     370-376.

&&

$$
