597 
FXUS66 KMFR 261903
AFDMFR

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Medford OR
1204 PM PDT Wed Oct 26 2022

Updated AVIATION Section

.DISCUSSION...The forecast looks to be on track and no updates
were needed as northwest flow this morning remains conducive to
scattered shower activity across SW Oregon. The Siskiyou Mountains
and Cascades have been the dividing wall of where shower activity
is not present, although at least partly cloudy conditions do
exist across NorCal and the East Side. Building high pressure
will steadily decrease shower activity through the day.

As the front moved through last night more accumulating snow was
observed in the high Cascades and webcams show snow sticking to
roadways. NOHRSC snowfall analysis estimated 4-6 inches of new
snow along the highest terrain in the Cascades, with 1-3 inches of
new snow present at pass level. Slow down and allow extra time to
reach your destination if traveling on these roads as a few more
hours of near freezing temperatures will exist before the
afternoon warmth can begin to melt the snow on roadways.

For more information on the forecast, please give the previous
discussion pinned below a read. -Miles

&&

.AVIATION...26/18Z TAFs...Mostly VFR this afternoon, except 
local MVFR and higher terrain obscurations. Tonight into Thursday 
morning, expect areas of coastal and valley IFR in fog/low clouds. 
Conditions improve to VFR Thursday afternoon. -Spilde

&&

.MARINE...Updated 800 AM PDT Wednesday 26 October 2022...Conditions 
hazardous to small craft will continue into the evening. Seas 
diminish this evening and conditions will remain relatively improved 
through at least Thursday afternoon with swell dominated seas 
hovering around 7 to 8 ft during that time. 

The next swell train is expected to arrive sometime between Thursday 
evening and early Friday morning. Despite the differences in timing, 
guidance has come into better agreement with this swell, peaking it 
between 12 and 14 ft at 14 to 15 seconds. This will bring the return 
of conditions hazardous to small craft by Thursday evening. Seas are 
expected to remain steep and elevated through the weekend with 
active weather continuing through then. -Smith

&&

.PREV DISCUSSION... /Issued 328 AM PDT Wed Oct 26 2022/ 

SYNOPSIS...Southern Oregon and Northern California will remain 
in a relatively progressive pattern with a series of disturbances 
moving across the area over the next week with breaks in between.
Today marks a period of relatively benign weather as a disturbance
leaves the area and a weak ridge of high pressure briefly returns.
As a result, expect wide-spread frosts and possibly a freeze for
portions of the West Side Valleys tonight.

SHORT TERM...Today and tonight 10/26...Radar imagery is showing 
some showers across portions of the west side in Oregon. These 
showers are generally light and should continue to taper off later
this morning. This will allow cloud cover to diminish over the 
course of the day as a weak area of high pressure begins to build
in over the area. While mainly benign weather is expected during
the day, the clear skies will allow temperatures to be pretty
cold. In fact, a widespread freeze will be possible for much of
the West Side California Valleys tonight, including the Klamath
River Valley, the Shasta Valley, and the area south of Mt. Shasta
in Siskiyou County. In addition, for areas of Oregon, expect a
widespread frost for most of the Rogue, Illinois, and Applegate
Valleys with the southern portion of the Umpqua Valley expected to
see a frost as well. Please see the NPWMFR for more details.
-Schaaf

LONG TERM...Previous Long term discussion written 10/25...Thursday
through Tuesday, Oct 27-Nov 1, 2022...The pattern will remain 
mostly progressive with an active Pacific jet stream sending 
multiple disturbances into the PacNW during the period. Most of 
these will be arriving from the WNW, so precipitation is favored 
from the Cascades/Siskiyous north and west with lighter amounts 
S&E of the mountains. No big shots of cold air are expected, so 
snow levels will mostly be in the 4000-6000 foot range. A brief 
period of higher snow levels (up around 7000-8000 feet) is 
expected late this week into the weekend before a colder system 
moves in early next week.

We'll start the period in between systems with a short wave upper 
ridge moving in overhead Thursday. After a chilly morning with areas 
of fog and perhaps even some west side frost, high pressure will 
bring a mostly dry day. Low clouds/fog may linger into the early 
afternoon for some of those western valleys. 

In the midst of the progressive pattern, weak split flow will 
develop Thursday night into Friday as the next frontal system 
approaches the Northwest Coast. This just means that one disturbance 
will carry its energy to our south while the northern branch feature 
fizzles as it heads into Idaho and Montana Friday into the weekend. 
We're left in between with a dying front at the coast. This could 
lead to a little precipitation across our northern and western zones 
Friday night into Saturday, but the vast majority of precip from 
this system will miss our area. 

The next stronger front, aided by a 140-kt Pacific jet, will arrive 
in the PacNW Sunday night into Monday, gradually moving through SW 
Oregon and into norCal Monday night into Tuesday. This one stands a 
better shot at bringing more widespread precipitation to the region, 
but there are still some significant differences in the guidance, 
making the Halloween night forecast uncertain. Some clusters are 
showing amplification of the trough into the West, which would slow 
the front down and maybe enhance precip, while others remain 
progressive with another quick-hitting front. We still have many 
days to see how that plays out. 

Either way though, after such a long dry spell and unseasonable 
warmth, it's nice to see that we are now fully into the fall pattern 
across the PacNW with no big warm ups in sight. Precipitation is a 
bit of a wild card, since there really hasn't been a lot south and 
east of the mountains since mid-September. The Climate Prediction 
Center maintains, however, that odds favor above normal precip in 
the PacNW right into the first week of November.  -Spilde

&&

.MFR WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
OR...Frost Advisory from 3 AM to 10 AM PDT Thursday for ORZ023-024-
     026.

CA...Freeze Watch from late tonight through Thursday morning for 
     CAZ080>082.

Pacific Coastal Waters...Small Craft Advisory until 11 PM PDT this evening for PZZ350-356-
     370-376.

&&

$$
