666 
FXUS63 KMQT 261736
AFDMQT

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Marquette MI
136 PM EDT Wed Oct 26 2022

.SHORT TERM...(Through Tonight) 
Issued at 135 PM EDT WED OCT 26 2022

The cold front and associated showers have finally slid east of Luce 
County, but some light showers have popped up in the wake of the 
front from Baraga County to Alger and northern Delta counties. These 
are combination lake effect and upslope showers, and while neither 
forcing mechanism would be sufficient to force showers on their own, 
they're both present and colocated, so some light showers are 
sticking around. By the mid afternoon, dry air should advect in and 
the midlevels should heat up enough to bring showers to an end, and 
the expected dry conditions can take over for the evening. Skies 
already clearing for the lunchtime hours over northern Wisconsin 
should be a sign of a similar trend expected into the evening over 
the UP.

.LONG TERM...(Tonight through Monday) 
Issued at 243 AM EDT WED OCT 26 2022

No significant impactful weather is expected for the latter half of 
the week and the weekend. An overall quiet pattern tonight into next 
week will support dry conditions with temperatures hovering near 
normal, but highs look to trend to 5 to 10 degrees above normal for 
the weekend. This trend toward warmer conditions is supported by the 
positive height anomalies presented by the EPS, GEFS, and the GEPS. 

Starting off tonight, surface high parked over the Upper Midwest and 
Upper Great Lakes and zonal flow aloft will promote subsidence and 
the beginnings of a dry period. Some warming is expected aloft, 
which may support some scattered clouds if it can overcome the 
subsidence. Expect lows to dip into the 20s away from the lakeshores 
but stay moderated by the warmer lakes by the lakeshores. There 
temps should only fall into the 30s. 

As the surface high gradually shifts east into New England Thursday 
and Friday, weak isentropic forcing will try and climb the western 
edge of the ridge. This should result in increasing mid-level cloud 
cover Thursday night into Friday. Otherwise, a couple shots of weak 
warm air advection will build into the region as the downstream high 
remains more or less stationary through late Sunday. With the high 
extending ridging back over the Upper Great Lakes, quasi-zonal flow 
aloft, the weekend looks to be dry. Daytime highs should climb into 
the 50s with some near 60F observations sprinkled in. Overnight lows 
are largely expected to be in the 30s inland and low 40s by the 
lakeshores.

Looking toward Monday and those scary trick or treaters ghouling 
around for sweets, a slow moving cut off upper level low progressing 
through southern-central Plains into the lower Mississippi River 
Valley looks to degrade into an open wave by Sunday night, then 
slowly ride northeast through the Ohio River Valley on Monday. GEPS 
and GEFS ensemble means and various membership present a couple 
different solutions on how quickly this takes place, but the overall 
consensus maintains ridging overhead, keeping precip south and east 
of the forecast area.
&&

.AVIATION...(For the 18Z TAFS through 18Z Thursday afternoon)
Issued at 134 PM EDT WED OCT 26 2022

Persistent MVFR CIGs still hanging on at all TAF sites thru 21Z. 
Light lake effect rain showers keep VCSH in the KSAW TAF thru 21Z 
but should be dry after that. All sites should be VFR this evening 
and beyond. Winds remain northwesterly at around 10 kts with CMX 
gusting over 20 kts, but winds should decrease and become southerly 
by Thursday morning.
&&

.MARINE...(For the 4 AM Lake Superior forecast issuance)
Issued at 243 AM EDT WED OCT 26 2022

Northwesterly winds around 20-25kts has been observed overnight on 
Lake Superior behind a slowly moving cold front across eastern Lake 
Superior. Along this boundary, a surface low has begun developing in 
response to upper level diffluent flow, as seen via GOES 16 250-
350mb derived motion winds. As this low lifts northeast into 
Ontario, increasing pressure gradient across the eastern half of the 
lake today will support winds increasing to 25 to 30kts, mainly east 
of Stannard Rock down toward the St. Marys.

This system pulls away and high pressure begins to dominate the 
region tonight. This should allow winds to settle below 20kts. The 
high will shift east Thursday and Friday, but looks to extend a 
ridge overhead through the weekend. With this, expecting continued 
light winds mostly below 20kts through the weekend.
&&

.MQT WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
Upper Michigan...
None.
Lake Superior...
None.
Lake Michigan...
None.
&&

$$

SHORT TERM...GS
LONG TERM...JTP
AVIATION...GS
MARINE...JTP
