253 
FXUS63 KMQT 262029
AFDMQT

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Marquette MI
429 PM EDT Wed Oct 26 2022

.SHORT TERM...(Through early evening)
Issued at 135 PM EDT WED OCT 26 2022

The cold front and associated showers have finally slid east of Luce 
County, but some light showers have popped up in the wake of the 
front from Baraga County to Alger and northern Delta counties. These 
are combination lake effect and upslope showers, and while neither 
forcing mechanism would be sufficient to force showers on their own, 
they're both present and colocated, so some light showers are 
sticking around. By the mid afternoon, dry air should advect in and 
the midlevels should heat up enough to bring showers to an end, and 
the expected dry conditions can take over for the evening. Skies 
already clearing for the lunchtime hours over northern Wisconsin 
should be a sign of a similar trend expected into the evening over 
the UP.

.LONG TERM...(Tonight through Wednesday)
Issued at 427 PM EDT WED OCT 26 2022

A split flow pattern will be developing across the Lwr 48 and Canada 
over the next couple of days as a band of positive 500mb height 
anomalies builds, generally centered along the U.S./Canada border 
into the weekend. The max anomaly will be over the northern Great 
Lakes region on Sat. This will shift the main band of westerlies in 
a low amplitude regime n into Canada with a weaker southern stream 
over the southern U.S. Medium range models indicate some 
consolidation of the flow by the middle of next week as a trof 
amplifies over the western U.S. For Upper MI, this pattern evolution 
will favor overall dry weather thru the first half of next week as 
the main band of westerlies shifts n. The last half of next week 
will become unsettled. Significant pcpn could occur if a well-
developed low develops out of the western trof or if the frontal 
boundary associated with the trof is slow to move thru the western 
Great Lakes, allowing a series of weaker waves to bring bouts of 
pcpn to the area. Right now, either scenario appears unlikely. As 
for temps, retreat of the main band of westerlies and developing 
positive height anomalies across the northern U.S., followed by 
development of a western trof, will result in above normal temps 
prevailing over the next 7 days. Temps will then trend down to 
around normal during the last half of next week. For those still 
working on outdoor projects, the dry/mild weather over the next 
several days will provide a good opportunity to wrap up those 
projects before winter sets in, not that it looks like that will 
happen anytime soon yet. 

Starting off tonight, surface high pres ridge will move over the 
western Great Lakes. As low-level winds back more westerly and waa 
eventually begins, clearing advancing across northern MN/nw WI will 
continue to progress eastward. With 850mb temps only rising to 
around -3C across Lake Superior, stratocu may persist thru the night 
for areas that continue to have a wind component off of the lake.
Shortwave tracking across northern Ontario/northern Lake Superior 
combined with developing waa/isentropic ascent being more strongly 
focused to the nw of the fcst area suggests any potential pcpn 
should pass by to the nw. With longer duration of clear skies across 
the southern fcst area, temps at traditional cold spots may slip 
toward 20F tonight. Temps will range up to the low/mid 30s near Lake 
Superior where clouds linger. 

WAA/isentropic ascent continues Thu/Thu night, and this will lead to 
considerable high clouds, then mid clouds spreading over the area. 
Another weak shortwave also shifts e to northern Ontario. Fcst 
soundings indicate dry air holding at the low-levels, so don't 
anticipate any pcpn occurring. However, should there be any isold 
-shra, they would occur over the nw fcst area, and the pcpn would be 
very light. High temps Thu will be a little above normal, mainly in 
the upper 40s/lwr 50s F. Temps will fall back to the 30s to lwr 40s 
F Thu night, warmest w and n central where s to sw winds downslope.

Fri/Sat, sfc high pres will ridge back from New England to the Great 
Lakes, allowing sw flow to continue. Isentropic ascent eases and 
shifts ne during Fri with mid-level drying following. As a result, 
expect decreasing clouds on Fri with clear to partly cloudy skies 
Fri night/Sat. Another weak shortwave passes across northern Ontario 
on Sat, but too far n to have any notable influence on the weather 
here. Expect high temps in the mid 50s to 60F on Fri and mid 50s to 
mid 60s, maybe some upper 60s F, on Sat, coolest along Lake MI east 
of Escanaba.

A stronger shortwave tracks e to far northern Ontario on Sun. 
Meanwhile, a southern stream wave slowly moving across TX to the Lwr 
Mississippi Valley Fri/Sat will lift ne to the Lwr Ohio Valley on 
Sun. The southern stream wave will inhibit better moisture from 
reaching the northern wave, and with fcst soundings showing plenty 
of dry air thru the lower levels, no pcpn is expected. Highs on Sun 
will probably slip back a few degrees from Sat due to more mid and 
high cloudiness. 

Medium range models have remained consistent in showing the southern 
stream wave passing too far to the se for any associated pcpn to 
reach the fcst area on Mon. Another northern stream wave will track 
to northern Ontario late Mon/Tue. This wave does track farther s 
than its predecessor, but probably still a little too far n for any 
pcpn concerns here. Mild weather will continue both days. For the 
end of Oct in Upper MI, can't really complain about expected weather 
conditions for the trick or treaters on Halloween evening. Should be 
mild and dry, maybe the warmest in years. Just looking at the 
calendar day for Oct 31 here at the NWS office, at least a trace of 
snow has been recorded on 5 of the last 10, including 3 of those 
with at least 2 inches of snowfall.

Low pres wave associated with the western trof will lift out toward 
the Great Lakes at some point Wed/Thu, but probably Thu based on 
consensus of ensembles. So, the next meaningful chc of pcpn will 
probably hold off until Wed night/Thu.
&&

.AVIATION...(For the 18Z TAFS through 18Z Thursday afternoon)
Issued at 134 PM EDT WED OCT 26 2022

Persistent MVFR CIGs still hanging on at all TAF sites thru 21Z. 
Light lake effect rain showers keep VCSH in the KSAW TAF thru 21Z 
but should be dry after that. All sites should be VFR this evening 
and beyond. Winds remain northwesterly at around 10 kts with CMX 
gusting over 20 kts, but winds should decrease and become southerly 
by Thursday morning.
&&

.MARINE...(For the 4 PM Lake Superior forecast issuance)
Issued at 427 PM EDT WED OCT 26 2022

NW winds of 20-30kt will linger early this evening over eastern Lake 
Superior. Otherwise, winds will be diminishing to 15kt or less from 
w to e tonight as a high pres ridge arrives. As the ridge departs on 
Thu, s to sw winds will begin to increase, but should remain under 
20kt thru the day. Winds will then increase further Thu night/Fri 
morning with gusts reaching up to around 25kt. May see some gusts to 
30kt for a time. Winds will decrease some into Fri night, then 
expect winds under 20kt during the weekend and on thru at least Mon.
&&

.MQT WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
Upper Michigan...
None.
Lake Superior...
None.
Lake Michigan...
None.
&&

$$

SHORT TERM...GS
LONG TERM...Rolfson
AVIATION...GS
MARINE...Rolfson
