101 
FXUS63 KMQT 260032
AFDMQT

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Marquette MI
832 PM EDT Tue Oct 25 2022

.SHORT TERM...(This evening through Wednesday)
Issued at 306 PM EDT TUE OCT 25 2022

Upper air pattern consists of a 500 mb closed low over the southern 
plains which is embedded in a deep trough over the plains. The 
closed low heads northeast into the Ohio Valley by 12z Wed while the 
trough axis heads east towards the upper Great Lakes. The pcpn will 
continue to be confined to the east half of the cwa and this was 
covered well in the going forecast. Will continue to have high pops 
in the east and dry in the west. Did not make too many changes to 
the going forecast.

.LONG TERM...(Wednesday night through Tuesday)
Issued at 330 PM EDT TUE OCT 25 2022

Key Messages:
-Cold front and showers hanging around Wed. AM
-Post-frontal breezes for east half Wed.
-Fog possible Thurs AM
-High pressure, dry zonal flow thru weekend
-Potential pattern break after Halloween 

The cold front continues its slow roll through the UP, and the 
slowing trend in the models continues. While GFS runs from prior to 
06Z yesterday had the 850mb theta-e gradient beyond Luce County, the 
latest GFS runs have that gradient around the Luce/Schoolcraft 
County line by 12Z Wednesday. Thus, the showers associated with the 
front will still be lingering around the far eastern portions of the 
region Wednesday morning, though most of the CAMs have showers east 
of Luce County by 17Z.

A secondary low along the frontal boundary will be passing northeast 
through the Lower Peninsula and far northern Lake Huron on 
Wednesday, which will serve to keep the pressure gradient tight in 
the east half of the UP and the eastern zones of Lake Superior 
Wednesday.

After fropa, a surface high moves over the Great Lakes into and 
through the weekend and flow aloft becomes zonal. The sinking air 
and subsequent drying from the high pressure should hamper any 
potential ripples of shortwaves in the flow aloft from causing any 
precipitation through the end of the work week and the weekend. The 
only potentially impactful weather under this pattern would be some 
foggy conditions as dry air aloft allows for clear skies and cooling 
to the dew point, especially as the near-ground air has been 
moistened with the recent showers and snowmelt. Currently only 
putting patchy fog in the grids, but sounding analysis in the short 
term could add confidence for changes in coverage or intensity.

Models still disagree on how to handle the inevitable pattern break 
next week. EPS guidance shows good agreement that a surface low will 
form over Louisiana and will begin moving northeast Saturday into 
Sunday but ensemble spread on the location of this low increases 
greatly as Halloween approaches. GEFS on the other hand keeps the 
low far away from the Midwest entirely but the solutions quickly 
descend into chaos by midweek next week, with no two ensemble 
members agreeing on placement of a low or high beyond next 
Wednesday. Expect some form of pattern shift next week along with 
some showers at some point but confidence in any details is low and 
no changes are made to the NBM in this period.
&&

.AVIATION...(For the 00Z TAFS through 00Z Wednesday evening)
Issued at 831 PM EDT TUE OCT 25 2022

A brief period of VFR conditions is possible at KIWD to start the 
TAF period, although conditions will quickly become MVFR.
MVFR conditions due to ceilings are expected to dominate during the 
overnight hours at each of the TAF sites, with VFR conditions 
expected to return Wednesday afternoon. Some rain showers are 
possible early in the TAF period for KSAW, but most of the rain 
should stay to the east. At KIWD and KCMX, winds will be out of the 
west to northwest, while at KSAW, winds will initially be out of 
the northeast, then become out of the northwest. &&

.MARINE...(For the 4 PM Lake Superior forecast issuance)
Issued at 330 PM EDT TUE OCT 25 2022

Westerly and southwesterly winds behind the cold front are causing 
winds to exceed 25 kts over the western and central parts of the 
lake. Winds drop below 20 knots tonight but a brief increasing of 
the pressure gradient Wednesday morning could support northwesterly 
winds 20 to 25 knots through Wednesday. High pressure moving in 
Thursday leads to winds remaining 20 knots or less for the remainder 
of the forecast period.
&&

.MQT WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
Upper Michigan...
None.
Lake Superior...
None.
Lake Michigan...
None.
&&

$$

SHORT TERM...07
LONG TERM...GS
AVIATION...KT
MARINE...GS
