119 
FXUS63 KMQT 260721
AFDMQT

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Marquette MI
321 AM EDT Wed Oct 26 2022

.SHORT TERM...(Today) 
Issued at 321 AM EDT WED OCT 26 2022

Best frontogenetical forcing remains confined to the far eastern 
portions of Upper Michigan early this morning as the front stalls 
over lower Michigan while a low enters Indiana.  And, this is 
reflected well on the latst radar mosaic with widespread rainfall 
over Luce and Schoolcraft Counties.  Rain chances will quickly taper 
off though as forecast soundings hint at drier air infiltrating the 
mid levels by mid to late morning.  As a result, will trend toward a 
dry forecast for this afternoon.  Temperatures will recover very 
little today under the cold airmass with highs only topping off in 
the low to mid 40s with some upper 40s to the south.  And, lows this 
morning are progged to dip into the low 30s across the interior west 
with upper 30s/low 40s over the remainder of the forecast area.

.LONG TERM...(Tonight through Monday) 
Issued at 243 AM EDT WED OCT 26 2022

No significant impactful weather is expected for the latter half of 
the week and the weekend. An overall quiet pattern tonight into next 
week will support dry conditions with temperatures hovering near 
normal, but highs look to trend to 5 to 10 degrees above normal for 
the weekend. This trend toward warmer conditions is supported by the 
positive height anomalies presented by the EPS, GEFS, and the GEPS. 

Starting off tonight, surface high parked over the Upper Midwest and 
Upper Great Lakes and zonal flow aloft will promote subsidence and 
the beginnings of a dry period. Some warming is expected aloft, 
which may support some scattered clouds if it can overcome the 
subsidence. Expect lows to dip into the 20s away from the lakeshores 
but stay moderated by the warmer lakes by the lakeshores. There 
temps should only fall into the 30s. 

As the surface high gradually shifts east into New England Thursday 
and Friday, weak isentropic forcing will try and climb the western 
edge of the ridge. This should result in increasing mid-level cloud 
cover Thursday night into Friday. Otherwise, a couple shots of weak 
warm air advection will build into the region as the downstream high 
remains more or less stationary through late Sunday. With the high 
extending ridging back over the Upper Great Lakes, quasi-zonal flow 
aloft, the weekend looks to be dry. Daytime highs should climb into 
the 50s with some near 60F observations sprinkled in. Overnight lows 
are largely expected to be in the 30s inland and low 40s by the 
lakeshores.

Looking toward Monday and those scary trick or treaters ghouling 
around for sweets, a slow moving cut off upper level low progressing 
through southern-central Plains into the lower Mississippi River 
Valley looks to degrade into an open wave by Sunday night, then 
slowly ride northeast through the Ohio River Valley on Monday. GEPS 
and GEFS ensemble means and various membership present a couple 
different solutions on how quickly this takes place, but the overall 
consensus maintains ridging overhead, keeping precip south and east 
of the forecast area.
&&

.AVIATION...(For the 06Z TAFS through 06Z Wednesday night)
Issued at 127 AM EDT WED OCT 26 2022

LL stratus will be the main impact to aviation interests at all 
three terminals. Trends continue to indicate much of the SHRA 
activity should remain E of KSAW, but will be monitored as the night 
progresses. As for the cloud cover, MVFR cigs appear to be the 
prevailing category, but brief periods of IFR can't be entirely 
ruled out, particularly at KCMX and KSAW. Improvements to cigs looks 
to occur later on Wed. at KIWD, and eventually at KCMX by the 
evening hours, but appears to struggle to clear KSAW this TAF 
period. There are some indications that perhaps clearing could occur 
quicker at KSAW than this forecast has, but this should come into 
better focus in subsequent TAF issuances. NWrly winds will dominate 
through the remainder of the overnight hours well into Wed., then 
back to a more Wrly component by day's end from W to E.
&&

.MARINE...(For the 4 AM Lake Superior forecast issuance)
Issued at 243 AM EDT WED OCT 26 2022

Northwesterly winds around 20-25kts has been observed overnight on 
Lake Superior behind a slowly moving cold front across eastern Lake 
Superior. Along this boundary, a surface low has begun developing in 
response to upper level diffluent flow, as seen via GOES 16 250-
350mb derived motion winds. As this low lifts northeast into 
Ontario, increasing pressure gradient across the eastern half of the 
lake today will support winds increasing to 25 to 30kts, mainly east 
of Stannard Rock down toward the St. Marys.

This system pulls away and high pressure begins to dominate the 
region tonight. This should allow winds to settle below 20kts. The 
high will shift east Thursday and Friday, but looks to extend a 
ridge overhead through the weekend. With this, expecting continued 
light winds mostly below 20kts through the weekend.
&&

.MQT WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
Upper Michigan...
None.
Lake Superior...
None.
Lake Michigan...
None.
&&

$$

SHORT TERM...TDUD
LONG TERM...JTP
AVIATION...lg
MARINE...JTP
