727 
FXUS63 KDVN 261741
AFDDVN

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Quad Cities IA IL
1241 PM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

...AVIATION UPDATE...

.SYNOPSIS...
Issued at 255 AM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

Water vapor imagery shows an upper level low lifting toward central
Indiana early this morning. Incoming weak mid level ridging and 
associated negative vorticity advection has brought a cessation to
the rain, and is being followed by clearing skies. Further west, 
water vapor imagery shows embedded disturbances being shuttled 
across the central Rockies ahead of a digging Pacific shortwave. 

&&

.SHORT TERM...(Today and tonight)
Issued at 255 AM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

Key message: 

Drier, brighter, and not as snappier. 

Discussion:

Surface high pressure will be the dominant weather feature, as
it traverses the region later today and tonight. We'll continue 
to see clearing skies east early on, followed by abundant 
sunshine. Later this afternoon and especially tonight, mid level
shortwave energy will move across portions of the Northern and 
Central Plains. Attendant warm advection will glance the area and 
anticipate mainly some uptick in mid/high clouds. Any precip 
should get no closer to us than western Iowa, and will largely 
focus even further north/west across the High Plains in the more 
robust low level warm, moist advection and ascent from the mid 
level waves.

As for highs today, with the damp - moist ground to start in many
areas for a change and a northwest wind I've sided with highs in 
the 25th-50th percentile range of NBM, or generally widespread mid
50s and a general range from 53 to 58. If we mix a bit deeper as
GFS soundings would support (near 850 mb), then there's potential
to see more upper 50s to around 60. 

Tonight, lows will be challenging with generally light winds 
(variable becoming easterly overnight) favorable for plunging
temps, but this will likely be offset a bit by some increase in 
clouds. Because of this I opted to stay close to 50th percentile 
of NBM, with lows mainly in the lower to mid 30s. Some areas west
and south where clouds arrive sooner could see upper 30s. Fog was
also considered, but enough uncertainty with the clouds to preclude 
mention. Fog signal in various guidance is underwhelming... but  
earlier runs of HRRR was supporting some fog into west central/
central Illinois, which would seem to be the most favorable area or
juxtaposition of the ridge axis and thinner clouds. Something to 
monitor for any changes. 

.LONG TERM...(Thursday through Tuesday)
Issued at 255 AM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

Key Messages:  

1. Essentially dry, near to above normal temperatures, winds mainly 
under 10-15 MPH

2. A "Treat" of a forecast for Halloween 

Thursday through Saturday night, high pressure will dominate the 
weather for the area as a low pressure system drops southeast out of 
the Rockies to the Gulf and then begins to lift northeast. It will 
be dry through the period with temperatures near normal in the mid 
50s to near 60 on Thursday rising into the upper 50s to mid 60s 
Saturday. There will be a southeast breeze at 10 to 20 MPH Thursday, 
with light or calm winds Thursday evening into Monday. 

Sunday and Sunday night, the low in the lower MS Valley will be 
lifting northeast into the OH River Valley.  Models have it taking 
different tracks, lending to low confidence.  The current blended 
forecast brings it close enough for some slight or low chance POPs 
along and east of the MS River for mainly Sunday afternoon and 
evening. Will watch later model runs to see if it tracks more to the 
southeast and we stay dry. Highs are slightly cooler with upper 50s 
and low 60s forecast. 

Monday into Tuesday, flow will become more from the southwest as the 
low exits east and a trough digs out west. It will be dry with 
slightly above normal temperatures in the upper 50s to low 60s on 
Monday, with temperatures well into the 60s Tuesday along with 
breezier southwest winds. The current forecast for Trick or Treating
Monday evening is for temperatures in the lower and middle 50s 
slipping into the mid 40s to near 50 by mid evening, winds calm or
light out of the south, and skies mostly clear.

&&

.AVIATION...(For the 18Z TAFS through 18Z Thursday afternoon)
Issued at 1228 PM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

High pressure currently sits to our west and is forecast to  
slowly shift eastward through the TAF period. This will turn our 
winds from the northwest today to the southeast after 12 UTC on 
Thursday. A shortwave passing to our northwest through the period 
will spread clouds across the area after 00 UTC Thursday with 
ceilings expected to lower to between 10 and 15kft after 6 UTC. 
So the forecast for this issuance has VFR conditions through the
period.

&&

.DVN WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
IA...NONE.
IL...NONE.
MO...NONE.
&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...McClure
SHORT TERM...McClure
LONG TERM...14
AVIATION...Cousins
