625 
FXUS63 KDVN 261950
AFDDVN

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Quad Cities IA IL
250 PM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

.SYNOPSIS...
Issued at 151 PM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

High pressure stretches from along the eastern Nebraska and 
western Iowa boarder southward into eastern Texas and western 
Louisiana. Clouds associated with a developing storm system across
the western High Plains continue to spread eastward into the 
Central Plains. Temperatures at 2 PM were in the mid 40s with 
dewpoints in the mid to upper 30s. 

&&

.SHORT TERM...(This evening through Thursday)
Issued at 151 PM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

Quiet weather is on tap across the area over the next 24 hours as
high pressure moves eastward across the area. However the Nam and
NamNest show some precipitation moving across the area tonight 
but soundings and time/height profiles show dry lower levels. For
this reason think that the forecast will remain dry. 

500 MB heights are increasing across the area over the next 24
hours in response to a shortwave trough digging into Colorado. 
High clouds are forecast to overspread the area this evening and 
continue into Thursday as a disturbance associated trough moves
into Minnesota. These high clouds will thicken and lower to mid 
level cloudiness after midnight and lingering through the day on
Thursday. As a result, increased low temperatures tonight by a 
couple of degrees resulting in lows in the mid to upper 30s by 
Thursday morning. With the clouds lingering into Thursday have 
kept high temperatures similar across the area in the mid to 
upper 50s.

Also on Thursday, departing high pressure to our east and a
developing storm  system in the Plains will result in an 
tightening pressure gradient across the Iowa. Expect a 
southeasterly breeze to develop with sustained winds near 10 MPH 
and a few gusts up to 15 MPH. 

.LONG TERM...(Thursday night through Wednesday)
Issued at 151 PM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

Key Messages:

1. There will be a gradual warming trend through the period. 

2. Chances of rain showers Sunday into Sunday night and another
potential round by the end of the period.

A closed 500 MB low is forecast to sink into the southern High
Plains to start the long term period Thursday night into Friday.
This results in height rises and ridging develop into the mid 
Mississippi River Valley. Currently, shortwave energy ejecting out
of this trough is resulting in increasing cloud cover with 
precipitation staying west of the area into weekend. This also 
results in gradually warming temperatures. High temperatures on 
Friday are forecast to be near 60 degrees. 

Saturday night into Sunday models are in good agreement that the
closed low will transition to an open wave through the day and 
lift from northeast Texas and into central Illinois by 12 UTC 
Sunday. Lift and increasing moisture will bring the chance of 
showers to the area south of Interstate 80 through the day on 
Sunday and into Sunday night. 

In the wake of Sundays storm system, a another longwave trough is
carved out across the western US with a rebounding 500 mb heights
Monday into Tuesday. The main result of this is warmer 
temperatures with high pressure across the area. Models begin to 
disagree late on Tuesday into Wednesday on the timing of the 
trough with the ECWMF being more progressive with a lead shortwave
moving across the Upper Midwest with showers on Wednesday and the
GFS develops a closed low in the Great Basin with strong high 
pressure across the Plains. The net result from NBM are chances of
showers on Wednesday. The current NBM has high temperatures on 
Wednesday in the mid to upper 60s. 

&&

.AVIATION...(For the 18Z TAFS through 18Z Thursday afternoon)
Issued at 1228 PM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

High pressure currently sits to our west and is forecast to  
slowly shift eastward through the TAF period. This will turn our 
winds from the northwest today to the southeast after 12 UTC on 
Thursday. A shortwave passing to our northwest through the period 
will spread clouds across the area after 00 UTC Thursday with 
ceilings expected to lower to between 10 and 15kft after 6 UTC. 
So the forecast for this issuance has VFR conditions through the
period.


&&

.DVN WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
IA...NONE.
IL...NONE.
MO...NONE.
&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...Cousins
SHORT TERM...Cousins
LONG TERM...Cousins
AVIATION...Cousins
