169 
FXUS62 KMLB 261952
AFDMLB

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Melbourne FL
352 PM EDT Wed Oct 26 2022

...New MARINE, AVIATION, HYDROLOGY...

.DISCUSSION...

Rest of Today...Still holding the course with 20 pct rain chances 
from Kissimmee to Titusville northward this afternoon and evening. 
GOES satellite imagery showing PWATs around 1.6" filtering in from 
the west, confirmed by the healthier surface cu field from Lake 
Kissimmee to Daytona Beach, and with the KMCO ACARS 18Z sounding 
indicating 1,300 J/kg MUCAPE, isolated showers and perhaps a 
lightning storm remain possible north of The Cape later this 
afternoon and evening. Expect any convection that manages to develop 
to push offshore or dissipate a little after sunset. To the south, 
much drier conditions with mostly clear skies. The sea breeze has 
been slower to develop along Treasure and southern Space coasts than 
expected, but hi-res guidance still shows winds turning briefly 
onshore in the evening before becoming light and variable tonight. 
The frontal boundary, currently extending from the eastern GOMEX 
into north central Florida and coastal Georgia, will continue 
dropping into central Florida tonight, then wash out near or just
north of the Lake O Region by the morning. Low clouds are 
possible tonight and early Thursday morning, especially north of 
the front, in addition to patchy ground fog an perhaps a couple 
isolated areas of dense fog. Afternoon highs in the mid 80s and 
overnight lows in the upper 60s to around 70.

Thursday...The remnants of the frontal boundary draped across 
central Florida will provide a focus for increased cloud cover and
modest rain chances. Model blends had quite an uptick in rain 
chances, likely due to GFS advecting in a plume of relatively 
higher moisture (PWATs around 1.6") along the frontal boundary 
near peak daytime heating, and perhaps some sea breeze 
interactions. Tempered the PoPs back a little bit, while also 
broadening the lower 20 pcts, resulting in rain chances 20 pct 
across most of east central Florida, and 30 pct closer to the 
boundary from southern Volusia to northern Okeechobee and 
southwestern Orange Counties by the early afternoon. Generally 
kept lightning mention south of the frontal boundary and over the 
local Atlantic waters, where CAPE remained sufficient to support 
one or two thunderstorms. Showers and whatever storms manage to 
form, once again, push offshore or dissipate a little after 
sunset. Winds generally light and variable. Afternoon highs tick 
down a degree or two north of the boundary to the lower 80s, and 
remain in the mid 80s to the south. Overnight lows in the upper 
60s.

Thursday Night-Saturday...The stalled frontal boundary draped over 
the peninsula begins to erode late Thursday, but will still keep a 
small chance of showers over the Atlantic waters. This translates to 
the forecast for Friday as well, however high pressure will squeeze 
southward which may end up limiting overall coverage. Late this 
week, Florida lies positioned between two areas of low pressure; a 
much more broad feature over TX moving eastward along the Gulf 
Coast, and a subtropical system wandering across the Atlantic. 
Between the two, ridging aloft sill extend northward from Central 
America, resulting in a tightening pressure gradient and increasing 
north to northeast winds heading into Saturday morning. Residual 
moisture from the stalled boundary will linger over the area into 
Saturday, keeping similar isolated PoPs along the coast and northern 
interior areas. Temperatures to complete the week will be near to 
slightly above normal, with highs in the low to mid and possibly 
even upper 80s over the far interior, with warming lows in the upper 
60s to lower 70s.

Sunday-Tuesday...Late this weekend, the previously mentioned low 
over TX and southern MS River Valley will drift towards the Deep 
South dragging another cold front with it. Unfortunately, this front 
will also wash out prior to its arrival to the area, so central FL 
misses out once again on another taste of crisp fall air. Instead, 
isolated showers will be possible on Sunday, clearing out for 
Halloween and the start of November as slightly drier air filters 
southward with building high pressure over the area. Relaxing 
pressure gradient will lead to weakening east winds that will veer 
south then west early next week. No "treats" for the temperature 
forecast as highs continue to run above normal in the mid 80s and 
lows in the mid 60s to low 70s.

&&

.MARINE...
Issued at 339 PM EDT Wed Oct 26 2022

Rest of Today-Tonight...Generally favorable boating conditions. 
Isolated showers and perhaps a lightning storm moving offshore and 
across the local Atlantic waters will be possible from the early 
evening through around midnight. A weak frontal boundary will drop 
down and wash out across the Brevard and Treasure Coast waters 
tonight. Winds SW-S 10-15 kts ahead of the front, veering NW-N 5-10 
kts tonight as the front settles. Seas 2-3 feet in the nearshore 
waters and 3-4 feet in the offshore waters.

Friday-Sunday...Poor to hazardous boating conditions will arrive 
late Thursday into Friday due to a tightening pressure gradient 
across the area. Northeast winds increase 10-15 knots on Friday, 
veering onshore by the weekend. As a result, seas will build 4 to 6 
ft in the nearshore waters, and up to 7 ft in the offshore and Gulf 
Stream waters. Small chance of showers and isolated storms each day, 
mainly north of Cape Canaveral.

&&

.AVIATION...
(18Z TAFS)
Issued at 339 PM EDT Wed Oct 26 2022

A weak frontal boundary will reach east central Florida early 
tonight, and wash out across central Florida near or just north of 
Lake Okeechobee by Thursday morning. Mainly VFR conditions today and 
early tonight at the northern terminals. ISO SH/TS possible this 
afternoon and evening ahead of the front, but lowering confidence, 
so continuing just VCSH mention. Any convection expected to clear by 
00Z. Guidance consistently indicating MVFR-IFR CIG impacts at KLEE, 
and periodically KDAB/KISM/KMCO/KSFB, between 09Z and 12Z. Likely
to add reductions to KLEE with next package, and will reassess 
other terminals. Some VIS reductions are also possible, but less
confident at this time. Predominantly VFR conditions for northern
terminals Thursday, but low CIGs may linger in the morning, and 
early SH expected. VFR conditions prevail through the TAF period 
at terminals from KTIX southward. MIFG possible but not confident 
enough for mention. Afternoon SH/TS possible.


&&

.HYDROLOGY...
Issued at 339 PM EDT Wed Oct 26 2022

The St. Johns river at Astor will remain in Moderate Flood Stage for 
the foreseeable future. The river is currently around 3.7 feet 
and is forecast to continue a slow decline through this weekend.

Near Deland, the river at 5.3 feet is forecast to fall from Major
to Moderate Flood Stage by tomorrow, then continue slowly 
declining through Moderate Flood stage through this weekend.

Near Sanford, the river will remain in Moderate Flood Stage into 
next week. The river is currently at 7.5 feet and is forecast to 
continue a slow decline.

At Geneva above Lake Harney, the river at 10.2 feet will remain 
in Major Flood Stage. The river is forecast to continue a slow 
decline, dropping from Major to Moderate Flood Stage by this 
weekend. 


&&

.PRELIMINARY POINT TEMPS/POPS...
DAB  85  67  83  68 /  20  20  20  20 
MCO  86  70  86  69 /  20  20  30  10 
MLB  85  68  84  69 /  10  10  30  10 
VRB  85  65  86  69 /   0   0  20  10 
LEE  85  68  84  67 /  20  10  20  10 
SFB  86  69  84  68 /  20  20  30  10 
ORL  87  70  85  70 /  20  20  30  10 
FPR  84  65  85  68 /   0   0  20  10 

&&

.MLB WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
FL...None.
AM...None.
&&

$$

Haley/Smith
