409 
FXUS62 KMLB 260030
AFDMLB

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Melbourne FL
830 PM EDT Tue Oct 25 2022

.DISCUSSION...

Current-Overnight...The east coast sea breeze has marched well 
inland and currently lies across our western coverage warning area 
this evening as it continues westward without any fanfare. Moisture 
will steadily increase/deepen from the west overnight ahead of an 
approaching frontal boundary. Winds will become light/variable 
overnight. Conditions are forecast to remain dry with skies PCloudy. 
Lows forecast mild in the L-M60s.

Wednesday...Previous Modified...A weakening cold front currently 
positioned east of New Orleans will shift eastward towards the 
state, approaching the forecast area later in the day. While severe 
weather is occurring in the Deep South due to this front, by the 
time it reaches east central Florida it will loose most of its 
momentum and begin to wash out. Current PoP forecast of 20% along 
and north of I-4 may be a little generous at the moment, especially 
as model guidance seems to take a slower track later in the day. 
Nonetheless, highest rain chances in about a week will occur 
tomorrow, but only isolated coverage of showers with a few embedded 
thunderstorms possible, mainly near/north of I-4. Afternoon highs 
will climb above normal values again, reaching the mid 80s.

&&

.MARINE...Overnight-Wed...Light NERLY winds this evening forecast to 
become SW/W overnight veering more SSW on Wed 5-10 kts ahead of an 
approaching/weakening frontal boundary. The ECSB is forecast to form 
Wed afternoon along the immediate Space/Treasure coasts with only 
minimal advancement inland. A small threat for isolated showers and 
thunderstorms is forecast Wed aftn/evening, Cape northward but 
confidence here is low. Seas decreasing to 2-3 most everywhere 
overnight continuing here thru tomorrow afternoon. Otherwise, 
generally favorable boating conditions. 

&&

.AVIATION...Light winds this evening and overnight veering SSW/SW on 
Wed 5-10 kts. The ECSB is forecast to form along the immediate 
Space/Treasure coasts in the afternoon with only minimal advancement 
inland. An approaching/weakening cold front may bring ISOLD showers 
across the I-4 corridor in the afternoon, but confidence/coverage 
too low beyond VCSH at KLEE. Continued mainly VFR thru the TAF 
period.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...

The St. Johns river at Astor will remain in Moderate Flood Stage 
for the foreseeable future. The river is currently around 3.8 feet
and is forecast to continue a slow decline.

Near Deland, the river will remain in Major Flood Stage through the 
first half of the week. The river is currently at 5.4 feet and is 
forecast to very slowly decline to Moderate Flood stage mid week.

Near Sanford, the river will remain in Moderate Flood Stage into 
next week. The river is currently at 7.6 feet and is forecast to 
continue a slow decline.

At Geneva above Lake Harney, the river will remain in Major Flood 
Stage through the end of the week. The river is at 10.3 feet and is 
forecast to very slowly decline to around 9.8 feet, dropping to 
Moderate Flood Stage, late this weekend.

&&

.MLB WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
FL...None.
AM...None.
&&

$$

Sedlock/Cristaldi
