686 
FXUS64 KFWD 261017
AFDFWD

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Fort Worth TX
517 AM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

...New Short Term, Aviation... 

.SHORT TERM... /NEW/
Update:
Only minor adjustments were made to the forecast grids to account
for temperature trends this morning. Current observations show
widespread temperatures in the 40s this morning, with a few
locations nearing the upper 30s. Expect these to drop a couple
more degrees before sunrise. Now that the Thursday
afternoon/evening time frame is included within the latest high-
res model guidance, the greatest instability axis looks to remain
west of the CWA. This would keep the better thunderstorm chances
and low-end severe potential over West TX and the TX Panhandle,
but I have still included slight PoPs in the forecast for late
Thursday afternoon into Thursday evening. Global models continue
to suggest that modest moisture return will nudge into our far
western zones, and a weak shortwave impulse looks to move ahead of
the main upper-level system which may help to support shower/storm
development near the Big Country late Thursday afternoon into the
evening. The better potential for widespread rainfall remains 
overnight Thursday into Friday. 

Langfeld

Previous Discussion:
/Rest of Tonight through Thursday/

Surface high pressure overhead North and Central Texas will allow
for light, northerly winds to continue into the overnight hours.
Light winds, a dry airmass with dewpoints in the mid 30s to mid
40s, and clear skies will allow for efficient radiational cooling.
Temperatures outside of the DFW Metroplex are already dropping 
well into the 40s, and we could see several rural locations fall 
into the mid to upper 30s by sunrise. 

Pleasant fall weather will persist through today and into Thursday
as zonal flow aloft prevails as the dominant upper-level pattern.
Southeasterly winds will return to the forecast area by Wednesday
afternoon as surface high pressure shifts to the northeast.
Slightly warmer afternoon highs in the 70s areawide are expected 
both Wednesday and Thursday afternoons. A few locations across 
Central Texas could approach 80 degrees by Thursday afternoon. 

By Thursday an upper-level trough will dig southward into New
Mexico. Increasing southerly surface flow will act in response to
cyclogenesis near the Texas Panhandle, Oklahoma Panhandle,
southeastern Colorado juncture. However, behind the previous cold
front, moisture return will struggle to transport dewpoints in 
the low to mid 50s northward into West Texas and the Texas 
Panhandle by the latter half of Thursday. Isolated convection will
be possible Thursday afternoon into Thursday evening, primarily 
west of the CWA. Widespread convective inhibition may hinder 
thunderstorm development and the degree of moisture return will be
important in determining if the cap can be eroded and how much 
instability will be in place. Additionally, the placement of the 
better quality moisture return will determine where the greatest 
potential for isolated convection will reside. The latest RAP 
places the nose of greater theta-e advection well west of the CWA,
whereas the GFS nudges the plume of moisture into our far western
counties over the Big Country. To account for this uncertainty, 
15-20% PoPs have been placed in our far western zones. With steep 
mid-level lapse rates >7.5 C/km and favorable shear profiles, any 
isolated storms that are able to develop would be capable of 
producing severe hail and damaging wind gusts. 

Stronger large-scale forcing for ascent and increased potential 
for widespread rainfall will arrive later Thursday night into 
Friday as this system shifts eastward. 

Langfeld

&&

.LONG TERM... /Issued 336 AM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022/
/Thursday Night through Tuesday/

As the upper low gets progressively closer to North Texas on 
Thursday night, increasing low and mid level isentropic ascent and
moisture advection will lead to a blossoming of convection during
the overnight hours. A fairly narrow axis of high PW air (1.2 to 
1.5", ~90th percentile for this time of year) will become co-
located with the strongest forcing for ascent west of I-35 around 
midnight Thursday night. Showers and a few thunderstorms should 
already be ongoing during this time across West Texas, but as the 
forcing for ascent becomes maximized within the plume of moisture,
convection should really increase in areal coverage during the 
overnight hours. This should mainly be in the form of convective 
rain showers, however, as the core of the upper low impinges on 
our western counties, a compact area of steep mid level lapse 
rates associated with the cold core will allow for elevated 
thunderstorms and an associated small hail risk through the late 
overnight hours into early Friday morning.

Meanwhile, a developing surface low will likely take shape and
deepen somewhere in Central Texas in the vicinity of our southern
counties (Lampasas/Bell) by early Friday morning. As it does, a 
well defined warm sector will become established with mid/upper 
50s dewpoints likely nosing into our southeastern counties through
midday. Most of the surface based instability will remain to the
southeast of our area and will thus limit the severe potential in
our area, but we'll have to watch the northward advancement of this
warm sector as low level wind fields will be highly sheared and
supportive of low level rotation and perhaps a few tornadoes.
Farther north, widespread rainfall will continue through much of
the day Friday in the form of elevated showers and a few
thunderstorms. With the upper low progged to track right over the
heart of our CWA on Friday, we'll maintain a steady supply of low
and mid level warm moist advection which will likely result in a
healthy dose of wrap around precipitation as the low moves
eastward. This will keep rain chances in the forecast through late
Friday night with precipitation finally ending across our eastern
counties Saturday morning. Widespread rainfall totals of 1 to 2
inches appear likely across a good portion of North and Central
Texas, although there will likely be narrow bands of heavier
amounts (3+"), especially just north of where the center of the 
mid level low tracks. This area will remain embedded within 
strong east-southeast low level flow and will have a tap to the 
best moisture with sustained ascent through the event. Right now, 
that favored area appears to be somewhere just south of the 
Metroplex (Hillsboro/Corsicana/Athens). Given that rainfall rates 
should be modest through the event and the system will remain 
progressive, the overall threat for flash flooding appears low at 
this time.

Rain will taper off early Saturday and skies will gradually clear
through the day with a cool day expected. Highs will remain in the
60s and steadily warm into early next week. 

Dunn

&&

.AVIATION... /NEW/
/12Z TAFs/

VFR will prevail through the TAF period. Light, variable winds 
will persist through this morning before gradually veering to the
southeast during the day Wednesday. Wind speeds are expected to 
generally remain below 10 knots.

Langfeld

&&


.PRELIMINARY POINT TEMPS/POPS...
Dallas-Ft. Worth    72  50  73  54  61 /   0   0   5  80  90 
Waco                76  46  78  55  65 /   0   0   5  70  70 
Paris               70  45  69  51  61 /   0   0   0  50  80 
Denton              72  45  73  50  60 /   0   0   5  80  90 
McKinney            71  44  72  50  60 /   0   0   5  70  90 
Dallas              72  51  73  54  60 /   0   0   5  70  90 
Terrell             71  45  73  52  61 /   0   0   0  60  90 
Corsicana           73  48  75  54  62 /   0   0   0  60  80 
Temple              76  45  78  55  66 /   0   0   5  80  70 
Mineral Wells       75  47  76  52  61 /   0   0  10  90  80 

&&

.FWD WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
None.
&&

$$
