906 
FXUS63 KMKX 260142 AAA
AFDMKX

Area Forecast Discussion...UPDATED
National Weather Service Milwaukee/Sullivan WI
842 PM CDT Tue Oct 25 2022

.UPDATE...
(Issued 842 PM CDT Tue Oct 25 2022)

It seems like there is a weak wake low (or something similar) that
is moving northward into southern WI on the back edge of the
precip shield. This is reflected by an enhancement in satellite
and picked up by the RAP and HRRR models. There was an abrupt 
wind shift to the northeast at Janesville, although most sites are
remaining out of the north. Wind gusts up to 35 mph are 
consistently being reported with this feature. Expect the 
strongest winds to only last an hour or less, but then the gusty 
northwest winds will kick in overnight as drier air moves into the
area on cold air advection. 

Cronce

&&

.SHORT TERM...
(Issued 337 PM CDT Tue Oct 25 2022)

Tonight through Wednesday night:

Low pressure will slightly deepen as it moves from se MO into srn
IL late this afternoon. Afterward, the low will slightly fill and
become more broad as a weak occlusion occurs. The broad low will
be located over ern Lower MI by 12Z Wed, with the upper low along
the IN and Ohio border. The light rain that has been over srn WI
today will become heavier late this afternoon and evening as the 
warm, moist conveyor belt and 925-700 mb frontogenesis focuses 
over the area. There will be a fairly strong PW and rainfall 
gradient over srn WI with perhaps 1.5 inches of rainfall over far
se WI to less than one half inch expected west of a line from FLD
to EFT. Some areas well west of Madison may see no rain at all. 
Nwly winds and cold advection then intensifies late tnt-Wed AM. 
Large scale subsidence will clear the skies for Wed and temps will
rebound into the lower to middle 50s. High pressure and cool 
temps then expected for Wed nt. 

Gehring

&&

.LONG TERM...
(Issued 337 PM CDT Tue Oct 25 2022)

Thursday through Tuesday:

It'll be relatively quiet and mild through the extended with
temperatures in the upper 50s to low 60s as a flat ridge develops
over the central US and Upper Great Lakes. Stronger steering flow
will remain to our north so we'll likely remain under lingering 
high pressure until Sunday afternoon and evening, when a weakening
sfc low brings slight chances for rain over far southeast WI. 
High pressure will then develop in its wake, continuing mild and 
dry conditions through the end of the extended period.

CMiller

Gehring

&&

.AVIATION...
(Issued 842 PM CDT Tue Oct 25 2022)

A brief period of gusty northerly winds are expected with the back
side of this precip shield that is moving northward through
southern WI. These gusts should last an hour or less before a
lull. More light rain is possible late this evening before it
gradually tapers off from west to east with the drier air moving
in. With that drier air and cold advection, expect gusty 
northwest winds overnight through much of Wednesday. Ceilings are
going to hover between IFR and MVFR over southeast WI overnight. 
Inland areas will see gradual improvement through the morning 
hours.

Cronce

&&

.MARINE...
(Issued 842 PM CDT Tue Oct 25 2022)

Northerly winds are quickly becoming gusty from south to north.
Therefore, started the Small Craft Advisories earlier. This is in
response to low pressure of 29.5 inches moving from southern 
Illinois to Lower Michigan. A period of northerly gales is 
expected over the south half of the lake from the early morning 
hours Wednesday until the late morning hours. A Gale Warning is in
effect. The brisk northerly winds and high waves will then 
gradually subside from Wednesday afternoon into early Wednesday 
evening. Lighter east to southeast winds will prevail for the 
second half of the week as high pressure builds in across the 
northern Great Lakes. 

A Small Craft Advisory is in effect later tonight from Sheboygan 
to Winthrop Harbor for increasing north winds and building waves.
The Small Craft Advisory will remain in effect until 4 PM CDT on
Wednesday. 

Gehring/Cronce

&&

.MKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
WI...None.
LM...Gale Warning...LMZ080-LMZ567-LMZ669-LMZ671-LMZ673-LMZ675-LMZ777-
     LMZ779-LMZ868-LMZ870-LMZ872-LMZ874-LMZ876-LMZ878...4 AM 
     Wednesday to 11 AM Wednesday.

     Small Craft Advisory...LMZ645-LMZ646 until 4 PM Wednesday.

     Small Craft Advisory...LMZ643-LMZ644 until 4 PM Wednesday.

&&

$$

Visit us at weather.gov/milwaukee

Follow us on Facebook, Twitter, and YouTube at:
www.facebook.com/NWSMilwaukee
www.twitter.com/NWSMilwaukee
www.youtube.com/NWSMilwaukee
