875 
FXUS63 KMKX 261938
AFDMKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Milwaukee/Sullivan WI
238 PM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

.SHORT TERM...
(Issued 238 PM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022)

Tonight through Thursday night:

As a broad area of high pressure moves into the Great Lakes Region
from the Central Plains, skies across Wisconsin will clear and
winds will diminish. This area of high pressure will eventually
become centered over the state tonight into Thursday. As it
continues to shift northeastward into Michigan and Ontario
Thursday afternoon/evening, winds will shift to southeasterly.
This return flow on the periphery of the ridge will help maintain
our near normal temperatures in the 50s through Friday before some
more robust warm air advection kicks in. With the longer nights
and skies clearing this evening, will have to keep an eye on the
potential for fog to develop during the early morning hours
tonight and Thursday night. 

Patterson

&&

.LONG TERM...
(Issued 238 PM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022)

Friday through Wednesday:

The quiet and dry conditions will persist through Saturday as
high pressure takes over the Great Lakes Region and New England
States. Light south to southeast winds will persist as the state
remains on the western periphery of the ridge. Warm air advection
will continue through out this time keeping high temps in the mid
50s to low 60s. With clear skies and light winds, there will be a
chance for some patchy fog to develop during the overnight and
early morning hours. 

Sunday into Monday, an upper level low pressure system will start
to advance northeast out of the mid Mississippi Valley. While a
small chance for POPs remains for Sunday night into Monday
morning, guidance has started to come into further agreement. The
Euro has backed off and shifted slightly further east, which has 
fallen further in line with the GFS and Canadian. Given this
slight shift in the Euro, the average among the models has also
slightly decreased our POPs during this time frame. As it stands
now, if the mean run of the Euro did come to fruition it would
sneak some scattered to isolated showers into southeastern 
Wisconsin. Will be keeping an eye on these chances for rain over
the Holiday weekend and hopefully the current trends of
diminishing the rain chances continue. 

Then looking further ahead to the middle of the week, 
temperatures look a bit warmer with highs in the low to mid 60s 
ahead of an approaching frontal boundary. The next chance for rain
looks to be tied to the passage of this frontal boundary, so will
keep an eye on the timing as details becomes more clear. 

Patterson

&&

.AVIATION...
(Issued 238 PM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022)

MVFR to VFR conditions are expected to persist through the period.
The scattered to broken cloud deck around 1-2.5 kft across much of
central and eastern Wisconsin this afternoon is expected to
gradually lift this evening into the overnight hours. The gusty
northwest winds this afternoon will also gradually begin to
diminish this evening as a broad area of high pressure begins to 
move overhead. Clear skies and light and variable winds are 
expected overnight tonight into Thursday morning. Near the end of 
the TAF period winds will shift to the southeast as the high 
pressure moves into Ontario. 

Patterson

&&

.MARINE...
(Issued 238 PM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022)

Northwest winds this afternoon will remain gusty around 25 to 30
knots as a broad area of high pressure begins to build into the
western Great Lakes Region. The winds will gradually diminish this
evening. This area of high pressure will become centered over the
Lake during the early morning hours keeping winds light and 
variable. With much of the Great Lakes Region under the influence
of high pressure through Saturday, expect winds to largely stay
light across the lake. The only exception being the northern 
third of the lake may see winds become breezy when the southerly 
return flow gets a bit stronger. 

Patterson

&&

.MKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
WI...None.
LM...Small Craft Advisory...LMZ643-LMZ644-LMZ645-LMZ646 until 4 PM 
     Wednesday.

&&

$$

Visit us at weather.gov/milwaukee

Follow us on Facebook, Twitter, and YouTube at:
www.facebook.com/NWSMilwaukee
www.twitter.com/NWSMilwaukee
www.youtube.com/NWSMilwaukee
