250 
FXUS61 KILN 261932
AFDILN

AREA FORECAST DISCUSSION
National Weather Service Wilmington OH
332 PM EDT Wed Oct 26 2022

.SYNOPSIS...
Low pressure system exits to our northeast tonight and is slowly
replaced by high pressure. Temperatures drop to just below
seasonal normals on Thursday before increasing into the start 
of the weekend. Dry conditions favored the next few days before 
the next low pressure system brings a chance of rain Sunday into
Monday.

&&

.NEAR TERM /UNTIL 6 AM THURSDAY MORNING/...
Occluded low pressure system now centered around NE OH this
afternoon, which will continue to travel NE through the day. A 
negatively tilted H5 trough will carve through the Midwest 
today behind the surface low, amplifying CAA and keeping some 
subtle forcing around. A few sprinkles may linger through the 
mid to late afternoon in portions of central OH, with other 
locations occasionally observing a light mist. Cloudy and breezy
conditions will persist throughout the daytime hours, with 
sustained winds of 10-15 mph and gusts up to 25 mph out of the 
west-northwest. 

Drier air gradually begins to advect in this evening, allowing 
for some clouds to dissolve overnight. However, some low level 
moisture remains trapped just below an inversion that develops 
several thousand feet AGL and thus won't allow skies to go 
completely clear. Winds will also subside some tonight as the 
pressure gradient loosens, with northwesterly winds generally
remaining between 5-10 mph. Expecting most if not all locations
to dip into the 30s tonight.

&&

.SHORT TERM /6 AM THURSDAY MORNING THROUGH THURSDAY NIGHT/...
Bufkit soundings keep the low level inversion in place Thursday,
which will prolong the presence of some lower level clouds. Dry
air advection will amplify as a surface high builds in from the
Central Plains region, which should help erode majority of 
these lower clouds by the afternoon, leaving mainly cirrus 
clouds around. 

Temperatures favored to remain a few degrees below
climatological normals, with most locations staying just below
60 degrees with the exception of some spots near/south of the OH
River. 

Flow aloft shifts more towards the southwest overnight,
saturating some of the upper levels. Additional cirrus clouds
favored to develop Thursday night, making for less efficient 
radiative cooling processes. Still, overnight lows will be 
similar to Wednesday night's lows as many locations drop into 
the mid to upper 30s once again. 

&&

.LONG TERM /FRIDAY THROUGH WEDNESDAY/...
This period will be characterized by above normal temperatures, a 
light rain producing weather system centered on Sunday afternoon or 
night into Monday morning, and more quiet weather heading into the 
middle of next week.  No hazardous weather is expected during this 
time period.

In the details...at 12Z on Friday a compact and rather potent upper 
trough /not too dissimilar from the system that moved through the 
Ohio Valley this morning/ will be located over Texas, moving through 
weak flow in the zonal subtropical jet stream. Detached from 
this, a stronger belt of flow across the northern Pacific, 
across southern Canada into the Atlantic maritimes will also be 
largely zonal, with a notable shortwave trough moving through 
western Canada. The combination of the western Canada wave 
moving east, and a more subtle wave in the subtropical jet 
upstream of the Texas closed low, will guide/steer the Texas 
closed low east and eventually northeast into the Ohio Valley on
Sunday afternoon through Monday, bringing increased chances for
rain. Ensemble and member analysis suggests the 
magnitude/geometry of the western Canada wave is most directly 
responsible for subtle timing issues of the Texas closed low as 
it ejects into the Ohio Valley and opens up into a negatively 
tilted shortwave trough that weakens. Thus, Sunday is a day that
could see more dramatic forecast modification in the coming 
days. Slower-camp solutions would allow for more 
sunshine/warmth/lower rain chances on Sunday, while a faster-
camp solution would mean cooler highs, rapidly thickening 
clouds, and more aggressive rain chances south-to-north across 
the area especially Sunday morning and afternoon. Things seem to
be trending slower, but not enough confidence to make large 
adjustments to the forecast right now based on 26.06Z and 26.12Z
ensembles. 

Until this occurs /Friday and Saturday/ expansive high pressure 
building to the north of the Ohio Valley will promote dry easterly 
flow, cool nights, warm afternoons, and plenty of sunshine.  

Rain chances appear most centered on Sunday afternoon /southern 
CWA/ into Sunday night /CWA-wide/ with forcing weakening 
considerably into a patchy light rain/drizzle scenario on Monday as 
the upper level troughing elongates and slows somewhat over the Ohio 
Valley. The entire system kicks east on Tuesday with decreasing 
clouds through the day and warming temperatures, with Wednesday 
looking like another chance to run toward 70F in a few spots. 

&&

.AVIATION /18Z WEDNESDAY THROUGH MONDAY/...
Deteriorated flight conditions continue through the afternoon as
IFR/MVFR CIGs (and some vsbys) linger. IFR vsbys should be much
more limited in coverage the rest of the afternoon, but pockets
of thicker BR may still create IFR/MVFR vsbys. IFR CIGs look to
improve back to MVFR by mid to late afternoon given latest 
satellite trends and guidance. Breezy conditions persist through
the evening, with a gradual transition from west-southwesterly 
winds to northwesterly winds. 

As the low continues to progress NE, sky conditions improve
overnight. However, models continue to hang onto low level
moisture, so kept in a SCT 1500-2500 ft CIG in for the overnight
period. High pressure and drier air eventually allow these
clouds to dissipate by late morning Thursday, leaving mainly
high clouds the rest of the day. 

OUTLOOK...No significant weather expected.

&&

.ILN WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
OH...None.
KY...None.
IN...None.

&&

$$
SYNOPSIS...Clark
NEAR TERM...Clark
SHORT TERM...Clark
LONG TERM...Binau
AVIATION...Clark
