690 
FXUS61 KILN 260209
AFDILN

AREA FORECAST DISCUSSION
National Weather Service Wilmington OH
1009 PM EDT Tue Oct 25 2022

.SYNOPSIS...
Low pressure system slowly moves through the Midwest region
tonight, finally providing some much needed rainfall. Cold front
moves through early Wednesday morning, keeping temperatures 
just below seasonal normals through the middle of the week. 
Temperatures trend warmer heading into the weekend, with dry 
weather persisting until the next low pressure system moves in 
for the end of the weekend.

&&

.NEAR TERM /UNTIL 6 AM WEDNESDAY MORNING/...
A quickly occluding low pressure system will continue to bring
good chance of showers overnight. The best coverage will be late
this evening until just past midnight as an initial band of rain
at the nose of a 35-40 knot LLJ pushes northeast ahead of the 
low. Later, a band of weakening showers just ahead of the 
surface boundary keeps a chance of rain going before moisture 
becomes shallow toward morning. Lows tonight will dip to around 
50 degrees.

&&

.SHORT TERM /6 AM WEDNESDAY MORNING THROUGH WEDNESDAY NIGHT/...
Some light, scattered showers remain possible behind the cold 
front as a negatively tilted H5 trough slowly pivots through our
fa. This pattern will create a cloudy, wet and breezy day on 
Wednesday. Temperatures will be non-diurnal on Wednesday, 
decreasing through the morning hours and eventually remaining 
gridlocked in the lower to middle 50s the remainder of the day. 

Showers will first exit the Tristate area (likely by the early
afternoon), lingering across portions of central and west-
central OH through the mid to late afternoon hours based on 
latest hi-res model trends. 

H5 trough pivots east of our CWA Wednesday evening, with
westerly flow aloft pulling in some drier air. Deep moisture
with the trough is shunted eastward, allowing for clouds to
dissolve Wednesday night. Pressure gradient loosens as high
pressure builds in from the Central Plains, allowing winds to
lighten overnight, but still remain around 5-10 mph out of the
north. Overnight lows will dip into the 30s for the majority of
locations.

&&

.LONG TERM /THURSDAY THROUGH TUESDAY/...
Surface high pressure will extend across our region Thursday into 
Friday. It will be dry with seasonly cool temperatures on Thursday 
with highs in the mid 50s to the lower 60s. Temperatures will modify 
into the 60s by Friday. Lows will be in the 30s and 40s. 

There remains some uncertainty with the timing and placement of a 
southern stream upper level low as it ejects northeast toward the 
Ohio Valley and opens up this weekend into early next week. The 
latest operational runs continue to be just a bit slower than some 
of the ensemble blends, so have maintained a slower trend for pcpn 
chances Saturday into Saturday night. Have also capped PoPs at 
chance for Sunday until confidence increases to perhaps bump them up 
to the likely category. Pcpn exits during the Monday/Tuesday time 
frame as high pressure moves back into the region. Highs will remain 
in the 60s and lows mainly in the 40s, a little bit above
normal.

&&

.AVIATION /02Z WEDNESDAY THROUGH SUNDAY/...
Showers will increase across the terminals from west to east
this evening, reaching Columbus shortly after midnight. Based on
upstream trends, expect these showers will drop visibility to
the 3-5 mile range at times before exiting to the northeast.
Ceilings below 3,000 feet appear patchy with this initial
precipitation, so have kept cloud bases in the VFR range through
most of the night.

A trailing cold front will usher in cool and damp air which 
will provide MVFR to borderline IFR ceilings Wednesday morning.
Westerly to northwesterly wind gusts in the 20-25 knot range 
are likely in cold air advection during the afternoon. Drier 
air eventually arrives near the end of the TAF period as high 
pressure builds in from the northwest.

OUTLOOK...No significant weather expected.

&&

.ILN WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
OH...None.
KY...None.
IN...None.

&&

$$
SYNOPSIS...Clark
NEAR TERM...
SHORT TERM...Clark
LONG TERM...Hickman
AVIATION...
