188 
FXUS61 KILN 262336
AFDILN

AREA FORECAST DISCUSSION
National Weather Service Wilmington OH
736 PM EDT Wed Oct 26 2022

.SYNOPSIS...
Low pressure system exits to our northeast tonight and is slowly
replaced by high pressure. Temperatures drop to just below
seasonal normals on Thursday before increasing into the start 
of the weekend. Dry conditions favored the next few days before 
the next low pressure system brings a chance of rain Sunday into
Monday.

&&

.NEAR TERM /UNTIL 6 AM THURSDAY MORNING/...
Drier air gradually begins to advect in from the west this 
evening, allowing for clouds to dissolve a bit overnight. 
However, some low level moisture remains trapped just below an 
inversion that develops several thousand feet AGL and thus won't
allow skies to go completely clear. Winds will also subside 
some tonight as the pressure gradient loosens, with 
northwesterly winds generally remaining between 5-10 mph. 
Expecting most if not all locations to dip into the 30s tonight.

&&

.SHORT TERM /6 AM THURSDAY MORNING THROUGH THURSDAY NIGHT/...
Bufkit soundings keep the low level inversion in place Thursday,
which will prolong the presence of some lower level clouds. Dry
air advection will amplify as a surface high builds in from the
Central Plains region, which should help erode majority of 
these lower clouds by the afternoon, leaving mainly cirrus 
clouds around. 

Temperatures favored to remain a few degrees below
climatological normals, with most locations staying just below
60 degrees with the exception of some spots near/south of the OH
River. 

Flow aloft shifts more towards the southwest overnight,
saturating some of the upper levels. Additional cirrus clouds
favored to develop Thursday night, making for less efficient 
radiative cooling processes. Still, overnight lows will be 
similar to Wednesday night's lows as many locations drop into 
the mid to upper 30s once again.

&&

.LONG TERM /FRIDAY THROUGH WEDNESDAY/...
This period will be characterized by above normal temperatures, a 
light rain producing weather system centered on Sunday afternoon or 
night into Monday morning, and more quiet weather heading into the 
middle of next week.  No hazardous weather is expected during this 
time period.

In the details...at 12Z on Friday a compact and rather potent upper 
trough /not too dissimilar from the system that moved through the 
Ohio Valley this morning/ will be located over Texas, moving through 
weak flow in the zonal subtropical jet stream. Detached from 
this, a stronger belt of flow across the northern Pacific, 
across southern Canada into the Atlantic maritimes will also be 
largely zonal, with a notable shortwave trough moving through 
western Canada. The combination of the western Canada wave 
moving east, and a more subtle wave in the subtropical jet 
upstream of the Texas closed low, will guide/steer the Texas 
closed low east and eventually northeast into the Ohio Valley on
Sunday afternoon through Monday, bringing increased chances for
rain. Ensemble and member analysis suggests the 
magnitude/geometry of the western Canada wave is most directly 
responsible for subtle timing issues of the Texas closed low as 
it ejects into the Ohio Valley and opens up into a negatively 
tilted shortwave trough that weakens. Thus, Sunday is a day that
could see more dramatic forecast modification in the coming 
days. Slower-camp solutions would allow for more 
sunshine/warmth/lower rain chances on Sunday, while a faster-
camp solution would mean cooler highs, rapidly thickening 
clouds, and more aggressive rain chances south-to-north across 
the area especially Sunday morning and afternoon. Things seem to
be trending slower, but not enough confidence to make large 
adjustments to the forecast right now based on 26.06Z and 26.12Z
ensembles. 

Until this occurs /Friday and Saturday/ expansive high pressure 
building to the north of the Ohio Valley will promote dry easterly 
flow, cool nights, warm afternoons, and plenty of sunshine.  

Rain chances appear most centered on Sunday afternoon /southern 
CWA/ into Sunday night /CWA-wide/ with forcing weakening 
considerably into a patchy light rain/drizzle scenario on Monday as 
the upper level troughing elongates and slows somewhat over the Ohio 
Valley. The entire system kicks east on Tuesday with decreasing 
clouds through the day and warming temperatures, with Wednesday 
looking like another chance to run toward 70F in a few spots.

&&

.AVIATION /00Z THURSDAY THROUGH MONDAY/...
High pressure will nose into the Ohio Valley tonight. This 
along with trends in satellite imagery and surface observations 
suggest improvement in the stratocumulus bases into the VFR
category shortly after 00Z this evening. 

However, flow just off the surface will shift from the northwest 
to the north as this occurs. This leaves doubt as to regeneration
of MVFR cigs after midnight due to trajectory of the cold air 
over Lakes Michigan and Erie. Guidance leaves plenty of 
uncertainty here. Have decided to keep SCT for now due to the 
flow becoming more anti-cyclonic and also decreasing. Best 
chance for some tempo conditions of MVFR ceilings will be near 
Columbus terminals late tonight.

Otherwise, VFR conditions will prevail through the rest of the
TAF period on Thursday. High pressure will build into the Great
Lakes offering rather light northeasterly winds and mostly sunny
skies by afternoon.

OUTLOOK...No significant weather expected.

&&

.ILN WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
OH...None.
KY...None.
IN...None.

&&

$$
SYNOPSIS...Clark
NEAR TERM...Clark
SHORT TERM...Clark
LONG TERM...Binau
AVIATION...
