196 
FXUS61 KILN 261358
AFDILN

AREA FORECAST DISCUSSION
National Weather Service Wilmington OH
958 AM EDT Wed Oct 26 2022

.SYNOPSIS...
Low pressure will track to the Great Lakes today, bringing
cooler temperatures, gusty winds, and a few showers. High 
pressure and dry weather will follow for tonight through  
Saturday. The threat for showers returns Sunday with the next 
area of low pressure.

&&

.NEAR TERM /UNTIL 6 PM THIS EVENING/...
Occluded low pressure system now centered around west-central OH
will continue to travel NE through the day. A negatively tilted
H5 trough will continue to carve through the Midwest today
behind the surface low, amplifying CAA and keeping some subtle 
forcing around. This will provide some light showers/sprinkles 
across a number of our counties this morning - mainly along and 
NW of I-71. As the low continues to move NE, pcpn chances will 
be more confined to central and west-central OH before 
dissipating (likely by mid-afternoon). 

Cloudy and breezy conditions will persist throughout the day,
with sustained winds of 10-15 mph and gusts up to 25 mph out of
the north. Won't see much of an increase in temperatures from
current values this morning given the pattern. 

&&

.SHORT TERM /6 PM THIS EVENING THROUGH 6 PM THURSDAY/...
For tonight, low pressure will be far to the northeast, while
1024mb high pressure pushes in from the west. Though all showers
will have ended, clouds are likely to persist through tonight in
a shallow layer of moisture trapped under an inversion. Even
with the extensive cloud cover, cold advection on a northerly 
flow will bring temperatures down to the mid and upper 30s. 

Clouds should decrease on Thursday when high pressure is
forecast to be centered over Michigan. Under partly to mostly
sunny skies, afternoon high temperatures are expected to range
from the mid 50s north to the low 60s south.

&&

.LONG TERM /THURSDAY NIGHT THROUGH TUESDAY/...
Surface high pressure centered over the lower Great Lakes on Friday 
will shift east to New England through Saturday. However, a ridge 
axis will still extend back to the west across portions of the 
southern Great Lakes through the first half of the weekend. This 
will help keep us dry Friday and Saturday and lead to some 
moderating temperatures with afternoon highs into the 60s both 
days. 

An upper level low over the lower Mississippi Valley on Saturday 
will open up as it lifts northeast across the Ohio Valley and into 
the Great Lakes region Sunday into Monday. The operational models 
remain a little slower than the ensemble means with this feature so 
will continue to trend slightly slower with pcpn onset. Nonetheless, 
showers will eventually overspread the area through the second half 
of the weekend and continue into the day on Monday. This will be 
accompanied by cooler temperatures with daytime highs Monday and 
Tuesday in the upper 50s to lower 60s. Drier conditions will return 
for Tuesday along with slightly warmer temperatures.

&&

.AVIATION /14Z WEDNESDAY THROUGH SUNDAY/...
Flight conditions are affected by the moist circulation around
low pressure that is tracking to the Great Lakes. Though 
showers have become isolated and may not directly impact TAF 
sites, ceilings as low as IFR are still probable as low level
moisture converges behind the low. Only slow improvement is 
indicated as high pressure builds in gradually, with MVFR 
possibly lasting through the 24 hour TAF period. Winds shift  
northwest to north as the low translates northeast, with gusts 
over 20 knots expected through this afternoon. CVG could see VFR
and northeast winds as high pressure approaches near the end of
their 30 hour TAF.

OUTLOOK...No significant weather expected.

&&

.ILN WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
OH...None.
KY...None.
IN...None.

&&

$$
SYNOPSIS...Coniglio
NEAR TERM...Clark
SHORT TERM...Coniglio
LONG TERM...JGL
AVIATION...Coniglio
