252 
FXUS63 KJKL 262000
AFDJKL

AREA FORECAST DISCUSSION
National Weather Service Jackson KY
400 PM EDT Wed Oct 26 2022

.UPDATE...
Issued at 128 PM EDT WED OCT 26 2022

Updated the forecast package to reduce afternoon highs a few 
degrees. Extensive cloud cover and a neutral to weak CAA should be
enough to keep afternoon temperatures in the mid 50s. Temps 
peaked in the east this morning and have trended downward with the
passage of a surface cold front which is now exiting to the east.
Guidance suggest that the current low stratocu deck will linger 
through the remainder of the afternoon and overnight before 
dissipating by mid-day Thursday as strong subsidence from 
strengthening high pressure aloft thins out (erodes) what is left 
of any cloud cover. Flow will be out of the northeast Thursday and
Thursday night, which is favorable for the redevelopment of 
clouds. Thus the possibility exists that cloud cover will 
redevelop over eastern Kentucky Thursday night. 

UPDATE Issued at 710 AM EDT WED OCT 26 2022

The current forecast is on track, but have tweaked it in the near
term by adding the latest obs and trends into the T/Td/Sky grids,
as well as adding some sprinkles for the sub 15 PoPs today. These
updates have been sent to the NDFD and web servers. 

&&

.SHORT TERM...(Today through Thursday)
Issued at 450 AM EDT WED OCT 26 2022

08Z sfc analysis shows a moderately strong area of low pressure
lifting into the the northern Ohio Valley - dragging a cold front
into eastern Kentucky. Winds ahead of this boundary remain south
to southeast at 5 to 10 mph while they switch to the southwest 
and west at 10 to 20 mph on the cool side of the front.
Temperatures are starting to vary more distinctly one either side
of the fropa from near 60 ahead of it to the mid 50s to the west.
Meanwhile, dewpoints are generally in the low to mid 50s across
the boundary - though drier air is found to the west of the CWA. 
Just a few showers remain along and ahead of the front under 
mostly cloudy skies with ceilings falling to near 1000 feet AGL. 

The models continue to be in very good agreement aloft through 
the short term portion of the forecast. They all depict a sharp,
but quickly weakening, shortwave trough lifting through the Ohio 
Valley this morning. In the wake of this, heights will rebound 
through Kentucky with southwest mid level flow and only weak 
energy riding over the region aloft. Heights will further build 
on Thursday well downstream of the next deep diving shortwave 
cutting into the western Southern Plains. The small model spread 
supported using the blended NBM as the starting point of the 
forecast grids with little adjustments needed. 

Sensible weather will feature a much cooler and more humid day
under continued low clouds and persistent CAA on westerly winds of
10 to 15 mph. The clouds sticking around for most of the area
tonight will limit the potential for radiational cooling and ridge
to valley differences - but did allow for some late in the western
parts of the area by dawn. Those clouds will also likely keep
valley fog at bay for most of the area as well, tonight. Thursday
will see higher temperatures as warmer air moves in aloft and sfc
winds switch more to the northeast. Clearing skies will also 
allow for more sunshine - helping warm the area by afternoon. 

Did not end up adjusting the NBM solution much for temperatures,
dewpoints, or PoPs given the expected cloud cover and more moist
air for much of the period. 

.LONG TERM...(Friday through Wednesday)
Issued at 400 PM EDT WED OCT 26 2022

Key Messages:

* Dry to start the period with seasonable temperatures expected.

* A system approaches the area late in the week and into the weekend 
  and will likely bring light rain to all of eastern Kentucky. Model 
  spread has decreased substantially since yestreday's model runs.

The 12Z model suite shows good agreement in the upper level pattern 
to start the long term period. A deep closed low will sit over 
central Texas with a narrow ridge located across the Southwest and 
into the Rockies. The closed low will meander eastward into the 
weekend before turning to the northeast late in the weekend. A short 
wave trough enters the picture across the California coast Friday 
night and will quickly progress eastward. This will combine with the 
closed low over the Mississippi Valley to form a more open wave 
pattern. the wave will continue to lift to the northeast as we enter 
the next work week. 

The global models show decent agreement in the development of this 
pattern. Precipitation in the form of light rain will move in from 
the southwest late Saturday night as the upper low moves to the 
northeast along with the supported surface low. Have adjusted the 
NBM PoPs during the Saturday timeframe down due to the model 
guidance delaying the onset of precipitation. This has been a 
consistent discrepancy between the global models and the NBM for 
several days, though the difference has started to become less.

Sensible weather will start out dry and close to seasonable with 
temperatures in the mid to upper 60s expected Friday. Saturday is 
also expected to be mostly dry with temps increasing into the upper 
60s to around 70. Rain will move in from the southwest late Saturday 
night and will continue through Sunday and into the work week. 
Models have started to converge on the timing and track of the upper 
level low this weekend. High temps will remain in the mid 60s for 
the remainder of the period.

&&

.AVIATION...(For the 18Z TAFS through 18Z Thursday afternoon)
ISSUED AT 128 PM EDT WED OCT 26 2022

Forecast challenge will be the extensive cloud cover across the 
region and prospects of dissipation. Guidance suggests MVFR based 
cloud cover will remain in place across eastern Kentucky today and
tonight, though some thinning and scattering out of these low 
clouds may take place during the latter portions of the forecast 
period, perhaps between sunrise and noon Thursday. Have no reason 
to dispute this and thus stayed close to model guidance. That 
said, cloud bases could lift just a bit overnight, after 06-09Z, 
into VFR territory before they begin to thin and scatter out 
Thursday morning. West-northwest winds around 10 kts will slacken 
and veer with time to around 5 kts or less, becoming more 
northerly through the overnight and eventually out of the 
northeast by Thursday as strong high pressure builds into the 
Great Lakes region. 

&&

.JKL WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
NONE.
&&

$$

UPDATE...RAY
SHORT TERM...GREIF
LONG TERM...BATZ
AVIATION...RAY
