957 
FXUS63 KJKL 262034
AFDJKL

AREA FORECAST DISCUSSION
National Weather Service Jackson KY
434 PM EDT Wed Oct 26 2022

.SHORT TERM...(This evening through Thursday night)
Issued at 434 PM EDT WED OCT 26 2022

Short term is straight forward. High pressure will strengthen and
build into the Great Lakes region over the next 24 hours. Seeing 
a bit of short wave ridging aloft as well. Combined the area 
should expect a period of strong subsidence across the area by 
Thursday morning. In response, our stubborn SC deck will thin and 
scatter out as the subsidence increases through the day Thursday. 
In addition, believe model guidance is not handling surface dew 
points and boundary layer moisture very well. While the exact 
amount of cloud cover will be an important ingredient in 
determining afternoon dew points for tomorrow, considering the 
strength of subsidence being advertised in model soundings, 
believe afternoon dew points will drop lower than current model 
guidance would suggest due to mixing alone. Therefore undercut 
model guidance by several degrees. While this will have some minor
implications with fire weather, the area should remain above 
critical parameters/thresholds as afternoon minimum RH values fall
into the low to mid 30s.

Winds will gradually shift out of the northeast late tomorrow 
afternoon and Thursday night. This pattern is favorable for cloud 
cover and as such redeveloped at least some partial cloud cover 
back over the area Thursday night. With the center of surface high
pressure well to our north, was hesitant to take overnight 
temperatures too low for Thursday night into Friday morning. 

.LONG TERM...(Friday through Wednesday)
Issued at 400 PM EDT WED OCT 26 2022

Key Messages:

* Dry to start the period with seasonable temperatures expected.

* A system approaches the area late in the week and into the weekend 
  and will likely bring light rain to all of eastern Kentucky. Model 
  spread has decreased substantially since yestreday's model runs.

The 12Z model suite shows good agreement in the upper level pattern 
to start the long term period. A deep closed low will sit over 
central Texas with a narrow ridge located across the Southwest and 
into the Rockies. The closed low will meander eastward into the 
weekend before turning to the northeast late in the weekend. A short 
wave trough enters the picture across the California coast Friday 
night and will quickly progress eastward. This will combine with the 
closed low over the Mississippi Valley to form a more open wave 
pattern. the wave will continue to lift to the northeast as we enter 
the next work week. 

The global models show decent agreement in the development of this 
pattern. Precipitation in the form of light rain will move in from 
the southwest late Saturday night as the upper low moves to the 
northeast along with the supported surface low. Have adjusted the 
NBM PoPs during the Saturday timeframe down due to the model 
guidance delaying the onset of precipitation. This has been a 
consistent discrepancy between the global models and the NBM for 
several days, though the difference has started to become less.

Sensible weather will start out dry and close to seasonable with 
temperatures in the mid to upper 60s expected Friday. Saturday is 
also expected to be mostly dry with temps increasing into the upper 
60s to around 70. Rain will move in from the southwest late Saturday 
night and will continue through Sunday and into the work week. 
Models have started to converge on the timing and track of the upper 
level low this weekend. High temps will remain in the mid 60s for 
the remainder of the period.

&&

.AVIATION...(For the 18Z TAFS through 18Z Thursday afternoon)
ISSUED AT 128 PM EDT WED OCT 26 2022

Forecast challenge will be the extensive cloud cover across the 
region and prospects of dissipation. Guidance suggests MVFR based 
cloud cover will remain in place across eastern Kentucky today and
tonight, though some thinning and scattering out of these low 
clouds may take place during the latter portions of the forecast 
period, perhaps between sunrise and noon Thursday. Have no reason 
to dispute this and thus stayed close to model guidance. That 
said, cloud bases could lift just a bit overnight, after 06-09Z, 
into VFR territory before they begin to thin and scatter out 
Thursday morning. West-northwest winds around 10 kts will slacken 
and veer with time to around 5 kts or less, becoming more 
northerly through the overnight and eventually out of the 
northeast by Thursday as strong high pressure builds into the 
Great Lakes region. 

&&

.JKL WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...NONE.

&&

$$

SHORT TERM...RAY
LONG TERM...BATZ
AVIATION...RAY
