137 
FXUS63 KJKL 260732
AFDJKL

AREA FORECAST DISCUSSION
National Weather Service Jackson KY
332 AM EDT Wed Oct 26 2022

.UPDATE...
Issued at 140 AM EDT WED OCT 26 2022

The cold front continues to progress toward eastern Kentucky as
the main area of convection associated with this is quickly
departing to the northeast. As such, winds will be turning more 
westerly before diminishing in speed towards dawn. Have updated 
the forecast mainly to fine tune the PoPs through the rest of the 
night as well as to add in the latest Sky/T/Td obs and trends to 
the forecast grids. These updates have been sent to the NDFD and 
web servers. 

UPDATE Issued at 1105 PM EDT TUE OCT 25 2022

In addition to adjustments made in alignment with observations,
additional changes were made for Timing of the band of showers 
moving across eastern KY. These timing adjustments were made 
based on radar and convective allowing model trends. Rainfall 
across the far southeast will be considerably more meager compared
to locations nearer to I 75 with less than a tenth of an inch 
expected for much of the headwaters of the KY and Big Sandy
region. Some rainfall and higher relative humidity for the
remainder of the night into Wednesday as well as cooler
temperatures on Wednesday will provide some relief for the several 
wildfires ongoing across southeastern KY.

UPDATE Issued at 750 PM EDT TUE OCT 25 2022

Hourly grids were freshened up based on recent observations. An
area of showers near and west of I-75 is gradually working into 
eastern KY. A moisture gradient remains in place across the area 
with downslope winds leading to dewpoints in the 30s over the Big 
Sandy Region and in the higher elevations near the VA border to 
the 40s to near 50. Dewpoints are in the upper 50s over portions 
of Wayne County. As the activity spreads east this evening, 
it will take longer for measurable rain to reach the ground.

&&

.SHORT TERM...(This evening through Wednesday night)
Issued at 414 PM EDT TUE OCT 25 2022

Increasing high cloud coverage has been the trend thus far, with 
winds generally out of the south between 5-10 mph and periodical 
gusts near 25 mph. This has allowed for temperatures to climb into 
the mid to upper 70s this afternoon. Dew points have started to 
climb as well, with mid 50s across the Cumberland Valley and mid 40s 
in the far east.  

Overall, guidance is in good agreement through the short term, with 
amplified flow across the eastern half of the CONUS. A closed low 
sits across the Ozarks, where another sits across Eastern Manitoba. 
At the surface, a cold front runs through the Midwest to the 
occluding low, where it continues south through the Lower 
Mississippi Valley. This will continue to press eastward, as the low 
is expected to meander just north of the area- through the Ohio 
Valley and into the Lower Great Lakes. 1930z composite depicts a 
line of showers and a few storms working through Western KY and 
West TN. This will shift eastward through the evening, with the 
best activity expected overnight along and ahead of the front. 
CAMs suggest the line of showers and minimal thunderstorms to 
weaken eastward, where the better focus for activity will be along
our northern fringes and into Ohio and north- nearer to the low. 
Soundings largely lack much instability, with any hints all 
elevated, so have omitted the mention. A weakening LLJ will also 
accompany the approaching system, which could lead to breezy 
southerly winds overnight, with the high terrain seeing gusts up 
to 25 to 30 kts. 

Fropa will come into Wednesday morning, where low cloud cover will 
linger through much of the day on westerly to northwesterly flow. As 
a result, have nudged highs down a bit cooler given the coverage, 
where mid 50s is generally anticipated. Heights will gradually
rise through the day as we are wedged between the exiting trough,
and a digging low across the Rockies. High pressure at the 
surface will shift through the Midwest and into the Great Lakes 
through the end of the period, where gradually clearing skies find
the area into Thursday morning. Lows tonight will be uniform 
given the coverage and rainfall, with lows in the upper 40s to low
50s. Wednesday night will feature upper 30s in the Bluegrass and 
western valleys, with mid 40s in the east where cloud cover 
lingers.

.LONG TERM...(Thursday night through Tuesday)
Issued at 332 AM EDT WED OCT 26 2022

The extended period will start off dry, as a ridge of high
pressure remains in place over the region. This ridge will begin
to erode and move off to our east by Sunday, as an area of low
pressure approaches from the southwest. The NBM continues to be
too fast with the progression of this system, and therefore the
timing of precipitation onset. That being said, again trended
toward slow system progression and precip onset for eastern
Kentucky. Will be first introducing rain showers to the area from
the southwest Saturday evening. The rain should become widespread
by Sunday morning, as low pressure moves northeast toward the
area. The peak of precipitation coverage should occur roughly
mid-morning Sunday through late Monday morning. The last showers
should begin gradually exiting the area early Monday evening, and
may lingering well into the day on Tuesday in our eastern
counties. Another ridge of high pressure is expected to move back
by mid-week, leading to perhaps another period of dry weather.

Temperatures on average through the entire period will be slightly
above normal across the area. The coolest nights will see low in
the low to mid 40s, with the warmer nights only falling into the
upper 40s and lower 50s. Daytime highs will be mostly in the mid
to upper 60s, with a couple of days maybe maxing out in the upper
60s to lower 70s.

&&

.AVIATION...(For the 06Z TAFS through 06Z Wednesday night)
ISSUED AT 155 AM EDT WED OCT 26 2022

While VFR conditions were still observed across the region to 
begin the period, a cold front moves east across the area will
bring decreasing ceilings, into the MVFR range during the 08 to 
15Z time-frame. Some isolated showers will accompany and precede 
the front. Once those lower clouds arrive, MVFR and spotty IFR 
level ceilings will prevail through the end of the period with 
perhaps some lifting noted late. Winds will start from the 
southeast to south at 5 to 10 kts, before becoming southwest to 
west behind the front at the same speeds. Gusts in the 10 to 20 
kts range will also occur at times through the forecast period.

&&

.JKL WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
NONE.
&&

$$

UPDATE...GREIF
SHORT TERM...BB
LONG TERM...AR
AVIATION...JP/GREIF
