588 
FXUS63 KJKL 261120 AAA
AFDJKL

AREA FORECAST DISCUSSION...UPDATED
National Weather Service Jackson KY
720 AM EDT Wed Oct 26 2022

.UPDATE...
Issued at 710 AM EDT WED OCT 26 2022

The current forecast is on track, but have tweaked it in the near
term by adding the latest obs and trends into the T/Td/Sky grids,
as well as adding some sprinkles for the sub 15 PoPs today. These
updates have been sent to the NDFD and web servers. 

&&

.SHORT TERM...(Today through Thursday)
Issued at 450 AM EDT WED OCT 26 2022

08Z sfc analysis shows a moderately strong area of low pressure
lifting into the the northern Ohio Valley - dragging a cold front
into eastern Kentucky. Winds ahead of this boundary remain south
to southeast at 5 to 10 mph while they switch to the southwest 
and west at 10 to 20 mph on the cool side of the front.
Temperatures are starting to vary more distinctly one either side
of the fropa from near 60 ahead of it to the mid 50s to the west.
Meanwhile, dewpoints are generally in the low to mid 50s across
the boundary - though drier air is found to the west of the CWA. 
Just a few showers remain along and ahead of the front under 
mostly cloudy skies with ceilings falling to near 1000 feet AGL. 

The models continue to be in very good agreement aloft through 
the short term portion of the forecast. They all depict a sharp,
but quickly weakening, shortwave trough lifting through the Ohio 
Valley this morning. In the wake of this, heights will rebound 
through Kentucky with southwest mid level flow and only weak 
energy riding over the region aloft. Heights will further build 
on Thursday well downstream of the next deep diving shortwave 
cutting into the western Southern Plains. The small model spread 
supported using the blended NBM as the starting point of the 
forecast grids with little adjustments needed. 

Sensible weather will feature a much cooler and more humid day
under continued low clouds and persistent CAA on westerly winds of
10 to 15 mph. The clouds sticking around for most of the area
tonight will limit the potential for radiational cooling and ridge
to valley differences - but did allow for some late in the western
parts of the area by dawn. Those clouds will also likely keep
valley fog at bay for most of the area as well, tonight. Thursday
will see higher temperatures as warmer air moves in aloft and sfc
winds switch more to the northeast. Clearing skies will also 
allow for more sunshine - helping warm the area by afternoon. 

Did not end up adjusting the NBM solution much for temperatures,
dewpoints, or PoPs given the expected cloud cover and more moist
air for much of the period. 

.LONG TERM...(Thursday night through Tuesday)
Issued at 332 AM EDT WED OCT 26 2022

The extended period will start off dry, as a ridge of high
pressure remains in place over the region. This ridge will begin
to erode and move off to our east by Sunday, as an area of low
pressure approaches from the southwest. The NBM continues to be
too fast with the progression of this system, and therefore the
timing of precipitation onset. That being said, again trended
toward slow system progression and precip onset for eastern
Kentucky. Will be first introducing rain showers to the area from
the southwest Saturday evening. The rain should become widespread
by Sunday morning, as low pressure moves northeast toward the
area. The peak of precipitation coverage should occur roughly
mid-morning Sunday through late Monday morning. The last showers
should begin gradually exiting the area early Monday evening, and
may lingering well into the day on Tuesday in our eastern
counties. Another ridge of high pressure is expected to move back
by mid-week, leading to perhaps another period of dry weather.

Temperatures on average through the entire period will be slightly
above normal across the area. The coolest nights will see low in
the low to mid 40s, with the warmer nights only falling into the
upper 40s and lower 50s. Daytime highs will be mostly in the mid
to upper 60s, with a couple of days maybe maxing out in the upper
60s to lower 70s.

&&

.AVIATION...(For the 12Z TAFS through 12Z Thursday morning)
ISSUED AT 720 AM EDT WED OCT 26 2022

In the wake of a cold front look for decreasing ceilings, into 
the MVFR range, to move in from west to east through 15Z. Some 
isolated showers will still be possible this morning but likely 
not affect any terminal. Low clouds in the MVFR and IFR levels 
will then prevail through the end of the period with perhaps some 
lifting to the ceilings starting later tonight from the west and
spreading east. Winds will be southwest to west at around 10 kts 
through the day with occasional gusts in the 15 to 20 kts range - 
diminishing to around 5 kts after sunset later this evening.

&&

.JKL WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
NONE.
&&

$$

UPDATE...GREIF
SHORT TERM...GREIF
LONG TERM...AR
AVIATION...GREIF
