965 
FXUS63 KMPX 260843
AFDMPX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Twin Cities/Chanhassen MN
343 AM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

.DISCUSSION...(Today through Tuesday)
Issued at 343 AM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

KEY MESSAGES: 

- Aside from a chance of showers Thursday across western Minnesota,
  dry weather and above normal temperatures are expected through 
  early next week. 

Clear skies are in place early this morning across much of the
region, with extensive stratus across northern MN and extending as 
far south as Morrison, Mille Lacs, and Kanabec counties. A 
negatively-tilted trough over the Ohio Valley will lift northeast 
today while another trough digs into the Rockies. This will build 
ridging across the Upper Midwest and should erode the cloud cover to
the north by this afternoon. High temperatures will reach near 
normal levels in the lower 50s today, with some mid 50s south of the 
MN River.

The trough over the Rockies will translate eastward to the southern
Plains Thursday and Thursday night with a ribbon of vorticity
extending northeastward into MN. Southerly flow and moisture return
should bring some showers to western portions of the state Thursday,
before dissipating Thursday evening as the system well to the south
begins to close off. 

The rest of the period will be dominated by largely zonal flow
trending more southwest early next week as a trough begins to dive
down the West Coast or into Rockies. Mild air will prevail with highs
in the upper 50s to mid 60s each day. By the middle of next week,
there are signs of the long wave trough to the west developing a 
surface system over the central U.S. That could bring even warmer 
air in ahead of the next cold front. 

&&

.AVIATION...(For the 06Z TAFS through 06Z Wednesday night)
Issued at 1144 PM CDT Tue Oct 25 2022

VFR conditions continue as satellite imagery depicts a large area of 
cloud cover in Northern and Central MN. This shield of cloud cover 
could potentially reduce cigs to near MVFR criteria before sunrise 
for AXN. Otherwise, high cloud cover will prevail for the remaining 
terminals. Clouds will mix out through the afternoon as winds 
undergo a southwesterly shift late afternoon Wednesday between 
5-10 kts. Cloud cover will return Wednesday overnight but should 
not cause disruption to VFR categories. 

KMSP...No additional concerns.

/OUTLOOK FOR KMSP/
WED...VFR. Wind WNW 5-10kts.
THU...VFR. Wind S 10-15kts. 
FRI...VFR. Wind SW 10-15kts.

&&

.MPX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
MN...None.
WI...None.
&&

$$

DISCUSSION...Borghoff
AVIATION...RMD
