882 
FXUS63 KMPX 261053
AFDMPX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Twin Cities/Chanhassen MN
553 AM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

.UPDATE...
Issued at 521 AM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

Updated for the 12z aviation discussion below.

&&

.DISCUSSION...(Today through Tuesday)
Issued at 343 AM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

KEY MESSAGES: 

- Aside from a chance of showers Thursday across western Minnesota,
  dry weather and above normal temperatures are expected through 
  early next week. 

Clear skies are in place early this morning across much of the
region, with extensive stratus across northern MN and extending as 
far south as Morrison, Mille Lacs, and Kanabec counties. A 
negatively-tilted trough over the Ohio Valley will lift northeast 
today while another trough digs into the Rockies. This will build 
ridging across the Upper Midwest and should erode the cloud cover to
the north by this afternoon. High temperatures will reach near 
normal levels in the lower 50s today, with some mid 50s south of the 
MN River.

The trough over the Rockies will translate eastward to the southern
Plains Thursday and Thursday night with a ribbon of vorticity
extending northeastward into MN. Southerly flow and moisture return
should bring some showers to western portions of the state Thursday,
before dissipating Thursday evening as the system well to the south
begins to close off. 

The rest of the period will be dominated by largely zonal flow
trending more southwest early next week as a trough begins to dive
down the West Coast or into Rockies. Mild air will prevail with highs
in the upper 50s to mid 60s each day. By the middle of next week,
there are signs of the long wave trough to the west developing a 
surface system over the central U.S. That could bring even warmer 
air in ahead of the next cold front. 

&&

.AVIATION...(For the 12Z TAFS through 12Z Thursday morning)
Issued at 521 AM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

VFR conditions should continue at all terminals through this TAF
period. A stratus deck is in place across northern Minnesota and 
Wisconsin, but has made little progress to the south, except in 
Western Wisconsin where it may get into RNH and/or EAU. Light WNW 
winds to start the period will go around to SSE this 
afternoon/evening and remain light.

KMSP...No additional concerns.

/OUTLOOK FOR KMSP/
THU...VFR. Wind S 10-15kts. 
FRI...VFR. Wind SW 10-15kts.
SAT...VFR. Wind S 5-10kts.

&&

.MPX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
MN...None.
WI...None.
&&

$$

UPDATE...CEO
DISCUSSION...Borghoff
AVIATION...CEO
