848 
FXUS63 KMPX 260447
AFDMPX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Twin Cities/Chanhassen MN
1147 PM CDT Tue Oct 25 2022

.UPDATE...
Issued at 1144 PM CDT Tue Oct 25 2022

Update to include the 06z aviation discussion.

&&

.DISCUSSION...(This evening through Tuesday)
Issued at 232 PM CDT Tue Oct 25 2022

Key Messages:

- Quiet weather this week, with a slight chance at precipitation on
  Thursday.

- Above normal temperature trend by the end of the week. Highs in the
  low 60s compare to normals of near 50 this weekend.

There is no need to separate time periods with this discussion as the
weather will basically not change aside from gradually increasing
high temperatures through this week, with the only exception being
Thursday. Broad surface high pressure will lift into the northern
plains on Wednesday, resulting in sunny skies and near normal
temperatures alongside light winds tomorrow. This will be closely
followed by a fairly weak low level jet, with enough forcing to
perhaps produce a few rain showers in western Minnesota on Thursday
morning, weakening as we head into daylight hours and the jet weakens
further. Most deterministic models have some form of light
precipitation over primarily western Minnesota that dissipates before
it can reach the Twin Cities and western Wisconsin, with trace
amounts to possibly a few hundredths the most of what we can expect.

After Thursday, upper level flow becomes zonal as an upper level jet
passes too far north to influence our weather, with a series of weak
surface high pressure systems not amounting to anything special 
progress across this the area. Our mid level winds will be the
primary feature to influence the sensible portion of the forecast,
with a turn out of the southwest resulting in warming at 925-700mb,
which should be able to mix down given a neutral boundary layer,
resulting in rising high temperatures this weekend and into early
next week. Highs will generally be in the upper 50s to low 60s
beginning on Friday and lasting into early next week. Our next hint
of a potential major system arrives by the very end of the period on
Tuesday, with ensemble solutions showing potential for a more
significant system. Given this is still 7-10 days out, there is a lot
that could still change, but for now it does appear our quiet weather
pattern will begin to shift by the first week of November.

&&

.AVIATION...(For the 06Z TAFS through 06Z Wednesday night)
Issued at 1144 PM CDT Tue Oct 25 2022

VFR conditions continue as satellite imagery depicts a large area of 
cloud cover in Northern and Central MN. This shield of cloud cover 
could potentially reduce cigs to near MVFR criteria before sunrise 
for AXN. Otherwise, high cloud cover will prevail for the remaining 
terminals. Clouds will mix out through the afternoon as winds 
undergo a southwesterly shift late afternoon Thursday between 5-10 
kts. Cloud cover will return Thursday overnight but should not cause 
disruption to VFR categories. 

KMSP...No additional concerns.

/OUTLOOK FOR KMSP/
WED...VFR. Wind WNW 5-10kts.
THU...VFR. Wind S 10-15kts. 
FRI...VFR. Wind SW 10-15kts.

&&

.MPX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
MN...None.
WI...None.
&&

$$


DISCUSSION...TDH
AVIATION...RMD
