609 
FXUS63 KMPX 262348
AFDMPX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Twin Cities/Chanhassen MN
648 PM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

.DISCUSSION...(This evening through Wednesday)
Issued at 229 PM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

Key Messages:

- Chance for showers in western Minnesota tomorrow morning, weakening
  by the middle of the day. Cloudy for much of the area tomorrow.

- Quiet and dry weather return after Thursday and continue through
  the weekend, with above normal temperatures through at least the
  middle of next week.

Tonight and Thursday...
Now that a few of the CAMs have begun to resolve the precipitation
potential for western Minnesota tomorrow, the signal for rainfall is
a bit stronger than 24 hours ago. The HRRR has a decent amount of
scattered showers making it as far east as the western Twin Cities
Metro around sunrise tomorrow, with stronger showers mainly confined
to southwestern Minnesota. These showers will form along the nose of
a weak low level jet, with low to mid level moisture and WAA
resulting in the showers. As we head into daylight, this jet will
weaken and cut off both the lift and moisture, thus the showers
should dissipate fairly quickly once we reach the middle of the day
and afternoon. For those that do not see rain, we will end up being
cloudier than it has been over the past few days and cloudier than it
will be as we head into the weekend, with clearing gradually through
late Thursday into Friday.

Friday through Wednesday...
Upper level flow returns to primarily zonal over our coverage area,
with a cut off system remaining far to our south and primarily
affecting the southernmost states. This likely will keep any further
precipitation chances through the period to a minimum, with weak
surface high pressure lingering in the northern plains as we remain
moisture starved. Temperatures under this scheme will remain above
normal in the mid 50s to low 60s for highs compared to normals around
50 this late in October. It is looking to be a great day for
Halloween on Monday, with high temperatures in the upper 50s to mid
60s under mostly sunny skies which will linger into the evening. Our
nights will continue remain above freezing, dropping into the upper
30s to low 40s. Precipitation chances will remain absent with a lack
of both forcing and moisture, however this could change as we head
towards the end of next week. A few long-range models and ensembles
are beginning to show potential for a pattern shift, with a more
active upper level pattern aiding in guiding a more dynamic surface
regime to the area. This is still in the 200-240 hour time frame and
thus heavily subject to change.

&&

.AVIATION...(For the 00Z TAFS through 00Z Thursday evening)
Issued at 619 PM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

Light rain in Nebraska will continue to move northeast this evening,
bring light rain to western MN Thursday morning. Expect some wet
surfaces in RWF and AXN and possibly STC into early Thursday
afternoon, when this rain is expected to dry up with the forcing.
Despite the rain, expect VFR cigs to remain, with cig heights 
ranging from as low as 5k feet in western MN, up to around 15k feet 
in western WI. For winds, as the high continues to slide into MI, 
we'll continue to see southeast winds become established overnight, 
that will become southerly on Thursday, with speeds slowly bumping up
toward 10 kts.

KMSP...A few sprinkles can't be ruled out Thursday morning, but the
chances aren't high enough to include in the TAF. Otherwise,
confidence is once again in the TAF this period.

/OUTLOOK FOR KMSP/
FRI...VFR. Wind SW 10-15 kts.
SAT...VFR. Wind SW 5-10 kts. 
SUN...VFR. Wind W 5-10 kts.

&&

.MPX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
MN...None.
WI...None.
&&

$$

DISCUSSION...TDH
AVIATION...MPG
