558 
FXUS63 KMPX 261719
AFDMPX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Twin Cities/Chanhassen MN
1219 PM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

.DISCUSSION...(Today through Tuesday)
Issued at 343 AM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

KEY MESSAGES: 

- Aside from a chance of showers Thursday across western Minnesota,
  dry weather and above normal temperatures are expected through 
  early next week. 

Clear skies are in place early this morning across much of the
region, with extensive stratus across northern MN and extending as 
far south as Morrison, Mille Lacs, and Kanabec counties. A 
negatively-tilted trough over the Ohio Valley will lift northeast 
today while another trough digs into the Rockies. This will build 
ridging across the Upper Midwest and should erode the cloud cover to
the north by this afternoon. High temperatures will reach near 
normal levels in the lower 50s today, with some mid 50s south of the 
MN River.

The trough over the Rockies will translate eastward to the southern
Plains Thursday and Thursday night with a ribbon of vorticity
extending northeastward into MN. Southerly flow and moisture return
should bring some showers to western portions of the state Thursday,
before dissipating Thursday evening as the system well to the south
begins to close off. 

The rest of the period will be dominated by largely zonal flow
trending more southwest early next week as a trough begins to dive
down the West Coast or into Rockies. Mild air will prevail with highs
in the upper 50s to mid 60s each day. By the middle of next week,
there are signs of the long wave trough to the west developing a 
surface system over the central U.S. That could bring even warmer 
air in ahead of the next cold front. 

&&

.AVIATION...(For the 18Z TAFS through 18Z Thursday afternoon)
Issued at 1213 PM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

Another mostly quiet TAF period coming up as low clouds over western
WI will continue to scatter out as we head into the afternoon. Winds
fairly light at 300-330 right now will slowly shift towards 240-270
by this evening, with speeds weakening at or below 3kts. A final
shift to 140-170 will arrive early in the morning on Thursday, with
speeds remaining light. CIGS return by the last 8 hours of the
period, remaining VFR and generally above 060.

KMSP...No additional concerns. The gradual wind shift tonight is the
only minor concern.

/OUTLOOK FOR KMSP/
THU...VFR. Wind SE 5-10kts.
FRI...VFR. Wind SW 10kts.
SAT...VFR. Wind S 5-10kts.

&&

.MPX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
MN...None.
WI...None.
&&

$$

DISCUSSION...Borghoff
AVIATION...TDH
