589 
FXUS63 KDTX 260403
AFDDTX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Detroit/Pontiac MI
1203 AM EDT Wed Oct 26 2022

.AVIATION...

Extensive mid level cloud with a few initial pockets of light 
showers will mark the early morning hours, as moisture gradually 
deepens in advance of an approaching low pressure system. A steady 
decline in ceiling heights will then commence after 09-10z within 
more widespread rainfall as the low lifts across the region. Initial 
period of low VFR to MVFR emerges late tonight, with a window of IFR 
and a modest reduction of visibility to accompany the heaviest 
pockets of rain early Wednesday. Modest recovery back into MVFR as 
winds shift to northwesterly Wednesday afternoon. Winds turning 
gusty during the latter half of the day, peaking late afternoon and 
early evening as precipitation exits eastward. Gusts in excess of 25 
knots.  

For DTW...Clear skies favored across the lowest 5000 ft prior to 09z 
as drier low level conditions hold. A steady decline in cloud base 
thereafter, with rain lending to eventual MVFR to IFR conditions 
during mid-late morning hours. Extensive low stratus with pockets of 
rain lasting into Thursday afternoon. Winds turning gusty from the 
northwest during the afternoon. 

 DTW THRESHOLD PROBABILITIES...

* High in ceilings below 5000 feet late tonight through Wednesday.

* Low in crosswind thresholds being exceeded Wednesday afternoon.

&&

.PREV DISCUSSION...
Issued at 354 PM EDT Tue Oct 25 2022

DISCUSSION...

Cut-off/closed low well defined over Missouri this afternoon per 
GOES imagery as the wave begins to lift northeastward, eventually 
linking up with the amplifying northern stream longwave trough. 
Ample cloud breaks and resident 12C H8 temps have generally allowed 
highs to climb into the low-mid 70s today (+2 sigma above norms), 
although a thickening cloud trend is underway as the main ThetaE 
plume spills northeastward across Southeast Michigan. Forecast 
soundings suggest low-level dryness prohibits rainfall until after 
dark (or well after) while current KDTX reflectivity highlights 
areas of virga above 7 kft AGL, therefore shifted PoPs back until 
after 00Z with a steady eastward expansion through 06Z. Latest 
CAM/Hi-Res suite reveals the axis of heaviest rain should set up 
west of the CWA late tonight while the LLJ is at its strongest (30-
40 knots in the lowest 3 kft AGL) and the system's cold front slows 
(or briefly stalls) across western Lower. Expanding coverage of 
showers arrives late tonight as activity blossoms overhead once 
saturated isentropic ascent ramps up in the lower layers, 
particularly west of US-23. Greater uncertainty exists for the far 
eastern portions of the region, therefore made a few notable changes 
to inherited categorical PoPs by decreasing wording to Chance until 
closer to sunrise east of M-53 as areas along the south-central 
Great Lakes waterways stay dry through the night.

Rain showers will be on-going Wednesday morning as the surface 
reflection lifts across the Tri-State border. Strongest local 
dynamics aligned with the core FGEN region midday Wednesday as the 
cold front works in. Expect at least a few moderate intensity 
showers during the late AM and early PM hours, although the 
thermodynamic environment will not supportive of thunder given 
formidable static stability from warm layer aloft. Showers could 
still be gusty at times, especially INVOF the FROPA with peak winds 
of 25-35 mph supported by mechanical mixing. A decent gradient wind 
sets in behind the front as southerly winds veer northwesterly under 
a CAA regime. A second round of more focused showers is likely 
during the afternoon with trailing deformation, although rainfall 
rates should be a lighter variety. Moisture progs depict a very 
sharp boundary Wednesday evening along the frontal slope that 
ensures not only the end of precip by 00Z, but very aggressive 
column drying with wake subsidence. PWATs collapse from around 1.25 
inches earlier in the day to just 0.25 inches with impressive 
dewpoint depressions throughout the mid levels. Main forecast 
question Wednesday night tied to the degree and duration to which 
shallow stratocumulus layer persists as models offer a range of 
solutions from SKC to OVC, at least until lower tropospheric winds 
veer more northerly. Airmass change lends a chilly night, with lows 
near the freezing mark outside urban landscapes.

Low-level anticyclone centers over the Great Lakes Thursday ensuring 
dry, sunny, and cool conditions with light flow veering ENE through 
the course of the day. Diurnal highs a few degrees short of normal, 
in the low-mid 50s. Gradual warming trend gets underway early this 
weekend with a minor recovery into the normal range amidst 
southeasterly return flow off departing high pressure and benign 
zonal mid-level winds. Warmer Saturday on the periphery of building 
Southeast/Carolina ridge that lifts highs to around 60F with no 
precipitation concerns in light of subsaturated air below 20 kft 
AGL. Monitoring the evolution of another cutoff low north of the 
Gulf Coast Sunday night into Monday, assuming the wave opens up as 
it takes a more northeasterly track and the CVA can setup 
along/north of the Ohio Valley.

MARINE...

Modest south-southeast flow continues into tonight ahead of 
approaching low pressure tracking out of the ArkLaTex region. This 
low rides along the remnant cold front, currently sitting over the 
western Great Lakes, into the central lakes daytime Wednesday 
bringing widespread showers to the area. Trends have continued to be 
favorable for sufficient gusts to gales latter half of Wednesday to 
warrant a Gale Warning for most of Lake Huron as stronger 
northwesterly flow develops (up around 35kts) on the backside of the 
system. Winds then rapidly weaken daytime Thursday as strengthening 
high pressure tracks directly over the central Great Lakes. Region 
remains of the influence of high pressure for the remainder of the 
week into the weekend.

HYDROLOGY...

A mature low pressure system lifts into the region overnight 
followed by a cold frontal passage Wednesday afternoon. Coverage of 
showers increases from southwest to northeast tonight becoming more 
widespread Wednesday morning and early afternoon. With PWATs up to 
1.25 inches, could see a few showers producing periods of heavy 
rainfall, although moreso for areas along/north of I-69 where a 
stronger interaction is expected with the cold front. Those 
locations could receive rainfall totals near 0.75 inches. Showers 
expected to start later for areas further to the southeast limiting 
totals to around 0.25-0.50 inches. Minor flooding of low-lying areas 
and poor draining zones will be possible in isolated to scattered 
fashion dependent on if any moderate to heavy showers train. Drier 
weather then settles in for the rest of the week and through much of 
the weekend.

&&

.DTX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
MI...None.
Lake Huron...Gale Warning from noon today to 10 PM EDT this evening for LHZ361-
     362.

     Gale Warning from 2 PM this afternoon to 4 AM EDT Thursday for 
     LHZ363-441-442-462-463.

     Small Craft Advisory from 2 PM this afternoon to 4 AM EDT Thursday 
     for LHZ421-443.

     Small Craft Advisory from 2 PM this afternoon to 10 PM EDT this 
     evening for LHZ422.

Lake St Clair...Small Craft Advisory from 4 PM this afternoon to 10 PM EDT this 
     evening for LCZ460.

Michigan waters of Lake Erie...Small Craft Advisory from 4 PM this afternoon to 10 PM EDT this 
     evening for LEZ444.

&&

$$

AVIATION.....MR
DISCUSSION...KK 
MARINE.......KDK 
HYDROLOGY....KK

You can obtain your latest National Weather Service forecasts online
at www.weather.gov/detroit.
