172 
FXUS63 KDTX 262324
AFDDTX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Detroit/Pontiac MI
724 PM EDT Wed Oct 26 2022

.AVIATION...

Extensive area of MVFR stratus will remain entrenched through the 
late evening period, as sufficient low level moisture depth remains 
in the wake of an exiting low pressure system. Gusty northwest winds 
persist within this environment, with gusts in excess of 20 knots 
common prior to midnight. Clearing potential overnight carries less 
certainty, as prospects for some degree of low level drying could 
emerge as low level veers toward the north and then northeast with 
time. Confidence in timing the clearing remains low, with the 
outgoing forecast edging toward a slower, more conservative outlook 
until upstream trends prove otherwise. A more definitive signal does 
exist by 11z-14z mid morning Thursday. VFR conditions then expected 
to persist throughout the remainder of Thursday with modest east-
northeast flow.   

For DTW...MVFR stratus to hold through at least the first half of 
the night within gusty northwest winds. Eventual clearing expected 
during the Thursday morning period, although confidence in exact 
remains low attm. Highest likelihood for clearing anticipated 
between 10z and 14z. Clear skies for the remainder of Thursday. 

 DTW THRESHOLD PROBABILITIES...

* High for ceiling 5000 feet or less through this evening, then 
  low overnight and Thursday morning.

* High for exceedence of crosswind thresholds into early evening.

&&

.PREV DISCUSSION...
Issued at 341 PM EDT Wed Oct 26 2022

DISCUSSION...

Departing upper low merges with the northern stream troughing 
pattern over Ontario this evening, driving the surface low 
responsible for earlier shower activity northeast of the Great 
Lakes. This initiates a period of height rises and large scale 
subsidence across the cwa, stripping away the majority of upper 
level moisture above 4 kft agl per forecast soundings. Low level 
moisture trends offer less clarity, with decreasing confidence in a 
clearing trend overnight. Upstream cloud field over northern MN/WI 
is a bit more extensive than modeled RH fields would suggest, along 
with a notable moisture flux off of Lake Michigan per GOES-16 
visible satellite imagery. Even in the wake of isentropic downglide, 
thinking there will be a deep enough moist layer for the subsidence 
inversion to trap the stratocu field overhead equating to partly to 
mostly cloudy coverage overnight. Higher confidence in clearing 
trend exists tomorrow morning, especially as daytime mixing ramps 
up. 

Thermal trough axis shifts right overhead tomorrow morning, and 
given preceding cold advection and at least pockets of clearing 
overnight, lows settle into the mid 30s (in comparison to lows in 
the 50s the past few days). High pressure building in from the west 
keeps conditions dry Thursday, with limited available moisture (30-
40 percent RH in the 1000-500 MB layer) equating to a mostly sunny 
forecast. Veering wind field with only modest warm advection lends 
to highs in the 50s.

Dry and gradual warming trend persists into the weekend as southerly 
low to mid level flow ensues, keeping temperatures within seasonable 
range for late October standards (upper 50s/low 60s) and dry/sunny 
weather. The next chance for rain does not arrive until early next 
week, although the responsible disturbance has already moved onshore 
the Pacific Northwest. This system cuts off from the mean flow and 
dives southeast into the ArkLaTex region over the next several days 
toward a region of broad mid level height falls. Deep layer 
isentropic ascent formulates a robust precipitation shield as the 
cyclone matures and stalls near the Gulf. Aside from propelling a 
plume of high cloud into southeast MI Friday, main impacts remain 
well south through the weekend. By the time the system projects 
north into the Great Lakes, model guidance consistently suggests a 
weakening trend after becoming vertically stacked. That said, 
expectation is for associated cloud cover to increase on Sunday, 
followed by at least a disorganized region of precipitation heading 
into Monday.

MARINE...

Widespread showers will continue into the evening over the central 
and eastern Great Lakes as low pressure moves eastward away from the 
region.  Stronger northwest winds due to the tighter pressure 
gradient will also continue into early tonight before beginning to 
diminish.  Gale Warnings remain in effect overnight with Small Craft 
advisories up for all other nearshore waters. Winds rapidly diminish 
going into Thursday as strengthening high pressure tracks directly 
over the region. High pressure will continue to bring quieter marine 
conditions across the central lakes through the remainder of the 
week and into the upcoming weekend.

&&

.DTX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
MI...None.
Lake Huron...Small Craft Advisory until 10 PM EDT this evening for LHZ422.

     Gale Warning until 10 PM EDT this evening for LHZ361-362.

     Gale Warning until 4 AM EDT Thursday for LHZ363-441-442-462-463.

     Small Craft Advisory until 4 AM EDT Thursday for LHZ421-443.

Lake St Clair...Small Craft Advisory until 10 PM EDT this evening for LCZ460.

Michigan waters of Lake Erie...Small Craft Advisory until 10 PM EDT this evening for LEZ444.

&&

$$

AVIATION.....MR
DISCUSSION...MV
MARINE.......SS

You can obtain your latest National Weather Service forecasts online
at www.weather.gov/detroit.
