076 
FXUS62 KCHS 260214
AFDCHS

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Charleston SC
1014 PM EDT Tue Oct 25 2022

.SYNOPSIS...
A weak cold front will move through the area Wednesday,
followed by high pressure into late week. Low pressure should
then arrive and produce a period of cooler, unsettled weather
during the upcoming weekend. 

&&

.NEAR TERM /UNTIL 6 AM WEDNESDAY MORNING/...
Late this evening: Aloft, the upper ridge axis will shift 
eastward and deamplify overnight as a potent upper low moves 
into the Ohio Valley. At the surface, weak high pressure will 
completely dissipate as an upstream cold front approaches from 
the west. The front appears to be on track to reach the far 
inland and western portion of the forecast area just after 
sunrise Wednesday morning. Along the front, a rapidly weakening 
band of showers will attempt to push into this portion of the 
forecast area late tonight. Given that the main belt of moisture
and forcing will lift off to the northeast of the region, we 
are carrying nothing more than a 20 percent chances of showers 
for these far western zones late tonight. Perhaps the more 
significant forecast issue will be fog and stratus once again. 
Model guidance suggests that the main area of concern is the 
Charleston Tri-County region, where winds will go calm by the 
late evening and the low-level wind field will begin to increase
last. There will be a good amount of mid and high level 
cloudiness passing through overnight, so we certainly aren't 
dealing with ideal radiational cooling conditions. However, 
residual low-level moisture is higher in this area thanks to the
extensive fog from this morning that lingered until around 
midday. The forecast features patchy to areas of fog beginning 
around midnight. Locally dense fog is certainly possible. If fog
and stratus develops it shouldn't linger as long as it did this
morning thanks to increasing low-level winds ahead of the 
arriving front. Temperatures won't be as cool, and lows should 
mostly be in the upper 50s.

&&

.SHORT TERM /6 AM WEDNESDAY MORNING THROUGH FRIDAY/...
Wednesday: A mid-level low will progress across the Ohio River 
Valley through the daytime hours, pushing northeastward into New
England by the end of the day. At the surface, high pressure 
will advance into the Atlantic as a cold front approaches the 
region from the west. Isolated to scattered showers are possible
across the region in the morning hours, mainly across 
southeastern GA where the better low level moisture profiles 
are. High temperatures are forecast to reach to around 80 across
the majority of the forecast area. After FROPA, cooler and 
significantly drier air will overtake the region. Overnight lows
are forecast to be in the upper 40s far inland and upper 50s 
near the coastline. 

Thursday and Friday: Aloft the region will remain under slight 
ridging while high pressure builds at the surface. With building
high pressure and persistent northeasterly flow, temperatures 
will trend slightly cooler. Thursday's forecast features mid to 
upper 70s, with Friday only reaching the low to mid 70s. 
Overnight lows Thursday are forecast to be in the mid 50s inland
with near 60 along the coast.

&&

.LONG TERM /FRIDAY NIGHT THROUGH TUESDAY/...
The long range forecast is fairly uncertain, as there are many 
factors that could potentially have an impact to the local 
region. Models are depicting an omega block pattern to develop 
this weekend aloft, with a low pressure system over ArkLaTex and
a low somewhere out in the Atlantic Ocean. High pressure over 
New England could produce a wedge on the eastern side of the 
Appalachians, making for an uncertain forecast. Temperatures 
have been trended downwards through the weekend due to the 
possible wedge. The aforementioned low aloft over ArkLaTex and 
its associated surface low are forecast to impact the region 
early next week. Showers are possible starting late Saturday and
into Sunday as a warm front lifts north through the area. In 
general highs should be in the 70s, with overnight lows in the 
50s to low 60s.

&&

.AVIATION /02Z WEDNESDAY THROUGH SUNDAY/...
At KCHS and KJZI: The most immediate concern is for another
round of fog and stratus developing around and just after
midnight. Fog could then linger through sunrise before
dissipating as low-level winds increase. The TAF's feature fog
developing by around 06z, with a TEMPO group from 07-11z for IFR
conditions. If fog develops, visibilities could certainly drop
below a mile. The rest of the period should be VFR. 

At KSAV: A weak band of showers could move through the vicinity
of the terminal in the 12-16z time period. No significant,
direct impacts are expected so the TAF doesn't explicitly mention
any showers at this point. Otherwise, no significant concerns at
this time. 

Extended Aviation Outlook: Prevailing VFR through late week. 
Flight restrictions are possible this weekend as low pressure 
approaches the region.

&&

.MARINE...
Tonight: Southeast winds will gradually veer to the southwest 
overnight as a cold front approaches from the west. Speeds will 
remain less than 10 kt through daybreak with seas 1-2 ft 
nearshore waters and 2-3 ft over the Georgia offshore waters. 
There is a chance that little fog could impact the Charleston 
Harbor, but guidance is split in how low vsbys could go. With 
low-level wind fields progged to increase after midnight as the 
cold front draws closer, widespread fog is not expected at this 
time. Trends will be monitored throughout the evening and 
overnight. 

Wednesday through Saturday: High pressure will shift offshore 
Wednesday as a surface cold front approaches from the west. The 
cold front is forecast to clear the marine zones Thursday, 
leaving northeasterly winds, generally 10-15 knot with 20 knot 
gusts, in its wake. Winds will remain elevated into the weekend 
as high pressure builds in at the surface. Seas should average 2
to 4 feet. A coastal trough could develop this weekend, further
enhancing the pressure gradient and therefore increasing the 
northeasterly flow more. The forecast does not feature Small 
Craft Advisory conditions, however this will need to be 
monitored with future forecast updates. 

Rip Currents: A moderate risk for rip currents is in place for 
area beaches Wednesday with onshore winds and a 1-2 ft swell 
contribution in place. An elevated risk for rip currents could 
persist into this weekend as astronomical factors and winds 
become even more favorable for rip currents.

&&

.TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
Astronomical influences from the new moon that occurs early 
this morning and the upcoming lunar perigee (Oct 29) will drive 
elevated tides this week. Minor coastal flooding will be 
possible around the times of high tide this morning through 
Thursday morning between Edisto beach and South Santee River, 
including the Downtown Charleston area. Moderate coastal 
flooding is then possible during morning high tides this weekend
with persistent north-northeast winds in place. South of Edisto
Beach through much of coastal Georgia, the probability for 
minor coastal flooding has increased with the mid to late week 
morning high tides. Highest chances will also be during the 
upcoming weekend.

&&

.CHS WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
GA...None.
SC...None.
MARINE...None.

&&

$$

NEAR TERM...BSH
SHORT TERM...CPM
LONG TERM...CPM
AVIATION...BSH/CPM
MARINE...CPM
TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
