229 
FXUS62 KCHS 261937
AFDCHS

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Charleston SC
337 PM EDT Wed Oct 26 2022

.SYNOPSIS...
A weak cold front will move through the area this evening,
followed by high pressure into late week. Low pressure should
arrive and produce a period of cooler, unsettled weather during
the weekend. High pressure will then return next week. 

&&

.NEAR TERM /UNTIL 6 AM THURSDAY MORNING/...
The cold front will shift off the coast by late this evening
while dry high pressure expands across the area. Winds will turn
to the northwest this evening, then increase out of the NNE late
tonight. BL moisture may remain high enough overnight to support
some stratocumulus dropping in from the north, but mostly clear
skies are anticipated with lows in the 50s.

&&

.SHORT TERM /6 AM THURSDAY MORNING THROUGH SATURDAY/...
Thursday and Friday: Aloft, the region will remain under slight 
ridging, while at the surface high pressure builds in from the 
north. A low pressure system will traverse across TX and into the 
Deep South, while its associated mid level trough swings slowly 
eastward. Persistent north to northeasterly flow will result in 
cooler and drier air building into the local area, leading to no 
mentionable rain chances and cooler temperatures over much of the 
region. Models are showing a coastal trough developing Thursday 
night into Friday. Isolated showers will be possible along the 
immediate coastline Friday. High temperatures Thursday are forecast 
to be in the mid 70s across southeastern SC and upper 70s across 
southeastern GA. Slightly cooler for Friday, with low 70s forecast 
across the entire region. Overnight lows will range from the low 50s 
inland to near 60 along the coastline.   

Saturday: The aforementioned low pressure system will continue its 
progression eastward across the Deep South, with some shortwave 
energy rippling through the southeastern states ahead of the mid-
level trough. However, models have been consistent in the high 
pressure having a strong hold over the forecast area, limiting the 
impact the shortwave will have on the region. With cooler, dry air 
in place, precipitation chances will be limited, with only isolated 
showers over the land areas and scattered showers over the immediate 
coastline and adjacent coastal waters. Temperatures are forecast to 
be in the low 70s.

&&

.LONG TERM /SATURDAY NIGHT THROUGH WEDNESDAY/...
An omega block pattern aloft will allow high pressure to continue 
its hold on the local area Saturday night and into Sunday. A low 
pressure system is forecast to track near the southeastern states, 
possibly tapping into some Gulf Coast moisture and bringing the 
first real rain chances to the local forecast area Sunday as a warm 
front lifts northward and a cold front approaches from the west. 
High pressure will build back into the area after the cold front 
pushes offshore early next week. Temperatures are forecast to follow 
a slow warming trend through the weekend and into early next week. 
Temperatures Sunday are forecast to be in the low to mid 70s, 
warming by Wednesday into the mid to upper 70s.

&&

.AVIATION /19Z WEDNESDAY THROUGH MONDAY/...
The cold front is steadily marching through the area. The window
for any MVFR ceilings is rapidly closing. VFR conditions
expected through the remainder of the 18Z TAF period. Winds will
turn NW and then NE overnight as high pressure builds in from
the northwest.

Extended Aviation Outlook: Prevailing VFR through late week. Flight 
restrictions are possible this weekend as low pressure approaches 
the region and a coastal trough develops.

&&

.MARINE...
High pressure will build over the waters from the northwest
tonight as the cold front moves farther offshore. Winds expected
to turn to the N shortly after midnight, then NNE by daybreak
Thursday with increasing speeds. Around daybreak the 1000 mb
geostrophic winds will surge to 20-30 kt, which combined with
the cold air advection regime, could produce some wind gusts 
approaching 25 kt over the warmer waters beyond 15 nm from 
shore. A short-term Small Craft Advisory may eventually be
needed.

Thursday through Sunday: High pressure will build into the 
region from the north while a coastal trough develops along the 
coastal zones. North to northeasterly winds will prevail, 
generally 15 to 20 knots with gusts to 25. Seas are forecast to 
build from 3 to 4 ft Thursday to 5 to 6 feet this weekend. Small
Craft Advisories will go into effect Thursday afternoon for the
Charleston County offshore waters and the 20-60 nm offshore GA 
waters and Thursday evening for the rest of the South Carolina 
nearshore waters. Additional Small Craft Advisories may be 
needed for the nearshore GA waters as well as the Isolated to 
scattered showers are possible this weekend across the waters 
associated with the coastal trough. 

Rip Currents: Increasing swell energy from an offshore low 
pressure system and gusty winds will lead to a Moderate Risk for
rip currents on Friday, with an enhanced risk through the 
weekend.

&&

.TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
Astronomical influences from the recent New Moon (Oct 25) and the 
upcoming Lunar Perigee (Oct 29) will cause elevated tides
through the weekend. This, combined with persistent/gusty
northeast winds and the resulting positive anomalies, will
likely cause coastal flooding. Moderate coastal flooding is 
currently forecast for the morning high tide cycles Thursday 
into the weekend along the Charleston/Colleton coastline, 
including Downtown Charleston. Minor coastal flooding is 
possible along the GA coastline up to Beaufort with the morning
high tide Friday and into the weekend.

&&

.CHS WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
GA...None.
SC...None.
MARINE...Small Craft Advisory from 6 PM Thursday to 2 PM EDT Sunday for 
     AMZ350.
     Small Craft Advisory from 10 PM Thursday to 8 AM EDT Saturday 
     for AMZ352.
     Small Craft Advisory from 6 PM Thursday to 4 AM EDT Monday for 
     AMZ374.

&&

$$

NEAR TERM...JRL
SHORT TERM...CPM
LONG TERM...CPM
AVIATION...CPM/JRL
MARINE...CPM/JRL
TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
