237 
FXUS62 KCHS 260506
AFDCHS

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Charleston SC
106 AM EDT Wed Oct 26 2022

.SYNOPSIS...
A weak cold front will move through the area Wednesday,
followed by high pressure into late week. Low pressure should
then arrive and produce a period of cooler, unsettled weather
during the upcoming weekend. 

&&

.NEAR TERM /UNTIL 6 AM THIS MORNING/...
Early overnight: Well defined mid level low is migrating 
east/northeastward through the lower Ohio River Valley driving a
surface low through Indiana and trailing cold front that arcs 
down through NW Georgia into SE Alabama. A scattered to broken band
of showers is pressing eastward ahead of the boundary. Some 
thunder is occurring in the panhandle of Florida within a narrow
axis of 500-1500 J/Kg MUCAPE.

Boundary will make inroads into northeast and central Georgia
during the overnight hours. High-res CAM guidance solutions
continue to suggest attending band of showers will thin out with
time, with some isolated activity pressing into the SW part of
the forecast area after 09Z or so. Thunderstorm probs are not
zero, especially in the southern Georgia counties as that narrow
axis of very modest instability presses eastward. But probs are
too low to introduce any TS to the forecast. So, sust some 
minor timing tweaks made to the overnight forecast. 

Meanwhile, some patchy dense fog has already develop across the
tri-county area with a few ob sites reporting vsbys under one 
mile. But given a few bands of thicker mid and high cloud cover
that are/will be moving through ahead of the boundary, and some
increase in surface wind during the overnight hours, we don't 
think that fog will become as widespread/persistent as last 
night. I have issued an SPS addressing some dense fog
possibilities. Will continue to monitor. 

&&

.SHORT TERM /6 AM THIS MORNING THROUGH FRIDAY/...
Wednesday: A mid-level low will progress across the Ohio River 
Valley through the daytime hours, pushing northeastward into New
England by the end of the day. At the surface, high pressure 
will advance into the Atlantic as a cold front approaches the 
region from the west. Isolated to scattered showers are possible
across the region in the morning hours, mainly across 
southeastern GA where the better low level moisture profiles 
are. High temperatures are forecast to reach to around 80 across
the majority of the forecast area. After FROPA, cooler and 
significantly drier air will overtake the region. Overnight lows
are forecast to be in the upper 40s far inland and upper 50s 
near the coastline. 

Thursday and Friday: Aloft the region will remain under slight 
ridging while high pressure builds at the surface. With building
high pressure and persistent northeasterly flow, temperatures 
will trend slightly cooler. Thursday's forecast features mid to 
upper 70s, with Friday only reaching the low to mid 70s. 
Overnight lows Thursday are forecast to be in the mid 50s inland
with near 60 along the coast.

&&

.LONG TERM /FRIDAY NIGHT THROUGH TUESDAY/...
The long range forecast is fairly uncertain, as there are many 
factors that could potentially have an impact to the local 
region. Models are depicting an omega block pattern to develop 
this weekend aloft, with a low pressure system over ArkLaTex and
a low somewhere out in the Atlantic Ocean. High pressure over 
New England could produce a wedge on the eastern side of the 
Appalachians, making for an uncertain forecast. Temperatures 
have been trended downwards through the weekend due to the 
possible wedge. The aforementioned low aloft over ArkLaTex and 
its associated surface low are forecast to impact the region 
early next week. Showers are possible starting late Saturday and
into Sunday as a warm front lifts north through the area. In 
general highs should be in the 70s, with overnight lows in the 
50s to low 60s.

&&

.AVIATION /06Z WEDNESDAY THROUGH SUNDAY/...
At KCHS and KJZI: Patchy dense fog has already materialized
around the tri-county area with some flight restrictions at CHS
and JZI. Fog and low stratus remains transitory at this juncture
and unclear whether or not solid IFR conditions will develop.
Bands of thicker cloud cover aloft along with some modest 
increase in surface wind overnight favors less fog that was seen
last night. Will continue to advertise temporary IFR conditions
through the overnight and see how things develop. On Wednesday,
a boundary will slip through the region during the
afternoon/evening timeframe with winds turning into the north
Wednesday night. Precip chances with the boundary still appear
very low and will not be included with the 06Z TAFs.

At KSAV: Fog/stratus probabilities are much lower here
overnight. Isolated showers could move through the vicinity of 
the terminal in the 14-18z time period. No significant, direct 
impacts are expected so the TAF doesn't explicitly mention any 
showers at this point. Otherwise, no significant concerns at 
this time. 

Extended Aviation Outlook: Prevailing VFR through late week. 
Flight restrictions are possible this weekend as low pressure 
approaches the region.

&&

.MARINE...
Tonight: Southeast winds will gradually veer to the southwest 
overnight as a cold front approaches from the west. Speeds will 
remain less than 10 kt through daybreak with seas 1-2 ft 
nearshore waters and 2-3 ft over the Georgia offshore waters. 
There is a chance that little fog could impact the Charleston 
Harbor, but guidance is split in how low vsbys could go. With 
low-level wind fields progged to increase after midnight as the 
cold front draws closer, widespread fog is not expected at this 
time. Trends will be monitored throughout the evening and 
overnight. 

Wednesday through Saturday: High pressure will shift offshore 
Wednesday as a surface cold front approaches from the west. The 
cold front is forecast to clear the marine zones Thursday, 
leaving northeasterly winds, generally 10-15 knot with 20 knot 
gusts, in its wake. Winds will remain elevated into the weekend 
as high pressure builds in at the surface. Seas should average 2
to 4 feet. A coastal trough could develop this weekend, further
enhancing the pressure gradient and therefore increasing the 
northeasterly flow more. The forecast does not feature Small 
Craft Advisory conditions, however this will need to be 
monitored with future forecast updates. 

Rip Currents: A moderate risk for rip currents is in place for 
area beaches Wednesday with onshore winds and a 1-2 ft swell 
contribution in place. An elevated risk for rip currents could 
persist into this weekend as astronomical factors and winds 
become even more favorable for rip currents.

&&

.TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
Astronomical influences from the new moon that occurs early 
this morning and the upcoming lunar perigee (Oct 29) will drive 
elevated tides this week. Minor coastal flooding will be 
possible around the times of high tide this morning through 
Thursday morning between Edisto beach and South Santee River, 
including the Downtown Charleston area. Moderate coastal 
flooding is then possible during morning high tides this weekend
with persistent north-northeast winds in place. South of Edisto
Beach through much of coastal Georgia, the probability for 
minor coastal flooding has increased with the mid to late week 
morning high tides. Highest chances will also be during the 
upcoming weekend.

&&

.CHS WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
GA...None.
SC...None.
MARINE...None.

&&

$$

NEAR TERM...TBA
SHORT TERM...CPM
LONG TERM...CPM
AVIATION...CPM/TBA
MARINE...CPM
TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
