860 
FXUS62 KCHS 261138
AFDCHS

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Charleston SC
738 AM EDT Wed Oct 26 2022

.SYNOPSIS...
A weak cold front will move through the area today, followed by
high pressure into late week. Low pressure should arrive and
produce a period of cooler, unsettled weather during the
weekend. High pressure will then return next week. 

&&

.NEAR TERM /THROUGH TONIGHT/...
Early morning update: Thicker cloud cover has spread across most
of the forecast area at this juncture, with a few showers poking
into the SW/W counties. Pretty much on track with the going
forecast. Arrival of thicker cloud cover and uptick in sfc 
temperatures has pretty much diminished the fog threat going
forward. No significant changes made to the forecast at this 
juncture other than to decrease the fog potential/wording.

Previous discussion...
Pattern Synopsis/Forecast...A well defined mid level low is 
migrating east/northeastward through the Ohio River Valley with 
attending elongated surface low pressure that stretches up 
through NE Lower Michigan. Trailing occluded/cold front arcs 
down through NE Georgia to a loosely organized secondary low 
over central Georgia. A scattered to broken band of showers is 
pressing eastward along and ahead of the boundary, still a few 
hours out from reaching the far SW part of the CWA. Some thunder
is occurring in the panhandle of Florida within a narrow axis 
of 1000-1500 J/Kg MUCAPE. Some instability does extend through 
central Georgia but more elevated in nature. 

First off, we continue to monitor fog trends very early this
morning. So far, fog has been sporadic and transitory and much 
less than we had yesterday morning. Unless something changes, we
have no plans for a Dense Fog Advisory for this morning.

Meanwhile, negatively tilted upper level trough will continue 
to advance up into the eastern Great Lakes region today with the
strongest QG-forcing for ascent focusing well to our north (mid
Atlantic into the eastern Great Lakes). But some modest height 
falls will help nudge the boundary eastward through our area 
this afternoon and into the coastal waters this evening. High- 
res CAM guidance solutions continue to suggest attending band of
showers will thin out with time, with largely isolated showers 
pressing into areas along and west of the I-95 corridor this 
morning before fizzling out this afternoon. Only minor tweaks 
were made to the going forecast. Thunderstorm probs this 
morning remain non-zero, particularly through the Georgia 
counties as that narrow axis of very modest instability presses 
eastward. But probs remain much too low to introduce any TS to 
the forecast. 

Tonight: Boundary will slip eastward across the coastal counties
and through the coastal waters with winds veering northwesterly
this evening and northerly overnight. Surface high pressure and
drier air overspread the region through tonight suggesting a 
decent clearing trend. That said, with the arrival of cooler 
air, I am a bit concerned that we see some lower cloud cover try
to spread in behind the boundary. Nam guidance is most bullish 
with this idea (typical). I'm not prepared to go as far as the 
NAM and METMOS guidance, but I do show a modest uptick in cloud 
cover during the overnight particularly across the SC counties.

&&

.SHORT TERM /THURSDAY THROUGH SATURDAY/...
Thursday and Friday: Dry and cooler high pressure is expected to 
build across the region from the north in advance of a low pressure 
system approaching from the west this weekend. However, a fairly 
sharp coastal trough should develop just off the Southeast Coast 
late week, which could introduce a few showers along the beaches 
starting early weekend. Given the strength of high pressure wedging 
south across the region and persistent north-northeast winds across 
the local area, temps will trend noticeably cooler each day. In 
general, highs should range in the mid-upper 70s Thursday, then low-
mid 70s Friday, coolest across southeast South Carolina. Thursday 
and Friday night lows should range in the mid-upper 50s away from 
the coast.  

Saturday: Latest guidance has trended drier with high pressure 
maintaining a strong hold across the region while a coastal trough 
persists off the Southeast Coast. However, conditions still warrant 
a few showers late day as a low pressure system advances across the 
Deep South with some mid-lvl shortwave energy traversing the 
Southeast United States along its leading edge. Instability will be 
weak while temps are cooler within a northeast sfc wind, suggesting 
the area will remain free of thunder. In general, highs should range 
in the lower 70s.

&&

.LONG TERM /SATURDAY NIGHT THROUGH TUESDAY/...
A wedge of high pressure should maintain a fair hold across the 
region late week, leading to some uncertainty in overall precip 
potential across the region late weekend into early next week. 
However, a low pressure system is anticipated to track near the 
Southeast United States, drawing some moisture across the local area 
while a coastal trough shifts onshore and dissipates. The eventual 
path/strength of the approaching low pressure system and position of 
the coastal trough shifting onshore will play the largest role in 
overall precip chances across the region, but few to scattered 
showers appear most probable Sunday when a warm front attempts to 
shift into southern areas before a cold front arrives from the west 
and shifts offshore. Precip chances are anticipated to trend lower 
behind fropa early next week, but overall temps remain fairly steady 
in regards to high and low max/mins and should even warm as high 
pressure returns heading into the middle of next week. In general, 
highs should range in the low-mid 70s this weekend, then mid-upper 
70s next week.

&&

.AVIATION /12Z WEDNESDAY THROUGH SUNDAY/...
At KCHS and KJZI: Arrival of thicker mid cloud deck has pretty
much decreased the earlier fog/shallow fog potential. Upstream
surface cold front pressing through eastern Georgia this morning
will be moving through the region late this afternoon/evening.  
Precip chances with the boundary still appear very low and will 
not be included with the 12Z TAFs. Winds veer northwesterly
behind the boundary this evening, and northerly overnight. There
is some potential for post-frontal lower (MVFR) cloud cover to 
develop as cooler air arrives later tonight. But confidence is 
too low to include in the terminal forecasts at this juncture.

At KSAV: Isolated showers will be moving through the vicinity 
of the terminal in the 13-18z time period ahead of a cold front
that moves through later this afternoon/evening. No significant,
direct impacts are expected so the TAF will not explicitly 
mention any showers. Winds veer northwesterly behind the
boundary this evening and northernly overnight. 

Extended Aviation Outlook: VFR conditions should prevail through 
Friday. Flight restrictions are possible this weekend as a low 
pressure system approaches the region.

&&

.MARINE...
Cold front is pressing through central and northeastern Georgia
early this morning, and will be slipping through the coastal
waters late this afternoon and this evening. A few showers
accompany the boundary, but expected to largely fall apart
before reaching the coastal waters. Otherwise, southwest winds
will increase ahead of the boundary today with some gustiness
into the 15 to 20 knot range possible. Winds veer northwesterly
this evening and northerly overnight behind the boundary with
some gustiness again overnight. But winds/seas will remain below
Small Craft Advisory criteria. 

Thursday through Sunday: High pressure will build across the region 
behind a cold front Thursday with increasing north-northeast winds 
and building seas. By daybreak Friday, an increasing pressure 
gradient between a wedge of high pressure across land and a coastal 
trough developing off the Southeast Coast supports surging north-
northeast winds and building seas, generally peaking in the 20-25 kt 
and 5-7 ft range. Small Craft Advisories will likely be needed for 
all waters during the weekend, including at times for the Charleston 
Harbor, before the pressure gradient begins to relax heading into 
early next week. 

Rip currents: A Moderate Risk for rip currents is in place for area 
beaches today with onshore winds and a 1-2 ft swell contribution in 
place. An elevated risk for rip currents should occur this weekend 
as astronomical factors and winds become even more favorable for rip 
currents.

&&

.TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
Astronomical influences from the new moon that occurs early this 
morning and the upcoming lunar perigee (Oct 29) will drive elevated 
tides this week. Minor coastal flooding will be possible around the 
times of high tide this morning between Edisto beach and South 
Santee River, including the Downtown Charleston area. Moderate 
coastal flooding is then more likely during morning high tides 
through the weekend with persistent north-northeast winds in place. 
South of Edisto Beach through much of coastal Georgia, minor coastal 
flooding will become a possibility during morning high tide cycles 
this weekend as well.

&&

.CHS WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
GA...None.
SC...Coastal Flood Advisory until 11 AM EDT this morning for SCZ049-
     050.
MARINE...None.

&&

$$

NEAR TERM...TBA
SHORT TERM...DPB
LONG TERM...DPB
AVIATION...DPB/TBA
MARINE...DPB/TBA
TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
