143 
FXUS62 KCHS 261717
AFDCHS

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Charleston SC
117 PM EDT Wed Oct 26 2022

.SYNOPSIS...
A weak cold front will move through the area today, followed by
high pressure into late week. Low pressure should arrive and
produce a period of cooler, unsettled weather during the
weekend. High pressure will then return next week. 

&&

.NEAR TERM /THROUGH TONIGHT/...
The cold front is now nudging into our far western zones based 
on the wind shift. Based on the current progression it should be
pushing off the coast by late this evening. A few light showers
ahead of the front are steadily dissipating as the models have
been anticipating. Otherwise, scattered to broken mid-level
cloud deck will push through, with clearing to the west later
this afternoon. Temps should top out in the 79-82F range.

Tonight: Boundary will slip eastward across the coastal counties
and through the coastal waters with winds veering northwesterly
this evening and northerly overnight. Surface high pressure and
drier air overspread the region through tonight suggesting a 
decent clearing trend. That said, with the arrival of cooler 
air, I am a bit concerned that we see some lower cloud cover try
to spread in behind the boundary. NAM guidance is most bullish 
with this idea (typical). I'm not prepared to go as far as the 
NAM and METMOS guidance, but I do show a modest uptick in cloud 
cover during the overnight particularly across the SC counties.

&&

.SHORT TERM /THURSDAY THROUGH SATURDAY/...
Thursday and Friday: Dry and cooler high pressure is expected to 
build across the region from the north in advance of a low pressure 
system approaching from the west this weekend. However, a fairly 
sharp coastal trough should develop just off the Southeast Coast 
late week, which could introduce a few showers along the beaches 
starting early weekend. Given the strength of high pressure wedging 
south across the region and persistent north-northeast winds across 
the local area, temps will trend noticeably cooler each day. In 
general, highs should range in the mid-upper 70s Thursday, then low-
mid 70s Friday, coolest across southeast South Carolina. Thursday 
and Friday night lows should range in the mid-upper 50s away from 
the coast.  

Saturday: Latest guidance has trended drier with high pressure 
maintaining a strong hold across the region while a coastal trough 
persists off the Southeast Coast. However, conditions still warrant 
a few showers late day as a low pressure system advances across the 
Deep South with some mid-lvl shortwave energy traversing the 
Southeast United States along its leading edge. Instability will be 
weak while temps are cooler within a northeast sfc wind, suggesting 
the area will remain free of thunder. In general, highs should range 
in the lower 70s.

&&

.LONG TERM /SATURDAY NIGHT THROUGH WEDNESDAY/...
A wedge of high pressure should maintain a fair hold across the 
region late week, leading to some uncertainty in overall precip 
potential across the region late weekend into early next week. 
However, a low pressure system is anticipated to track near the 
Southeast United States, drawing some moisture across the local area 
while a coastal trough shifts onshore and dissipates. The eventual 
path/strength of the approaching low pressure system and position of 
the coastal trough shifting onshore will play the largest role in 
overall precip chances across the region, but few to scattered 
showers appear most probable Sunday when a warm front attempts to 
shift into southern areas before a cold front arrives from the west 
and shifts offshore. Precip chances are anticipated to trend lower 
behind fropa early next week, but overall temps remain fairly steady 
in regards to high and low max/mins and should even warm as high 
pressure returns heading into the middle of next week. In general, 
highs should range in the low-mid 70s this weekend, then mid-upper 
70s next week.

&&

.AVIATION /17Z WEDNESDAY THROUGH SUNDAY/...
The cold front is steadily marching through the area. The patchy
light rain showers have mostly tapered off, though sporadic MVFR
ceilings may affect KSAV for an hour or two. Winds will turn NW
and then NNE later tonight as high pressure builds in from the
northwest. 

Extended Aviation Outlook: VFR conditions should prevail through 
Friday. Flight restrictions are possible this weekend as a low 
pressure system approaches the region.

&&

.MARINE...
Cold front is pressing through central and northeastern Georgia
early this morning, and will be slipping through the coastal
waters late this afternoon and this evening. A few showers
accompany the boundary, but expected to largely fall apart
before reaching the coastal waters. Otherwise, southwest winds
will increase ahead of the boundary today with some gustiness
into the 15 to 20 knot range possible. Winds veer northwesterly
this evening and northerly overnight behind the boundary with
some gustiness again overnight. But winds/seas will remain below
Small Craft Advisory criteria. 

Thursday through Sunday: High pressure will build across the region 
behind a cold front Thursday with increasing north-northeast winds 
and building seas. By daybreak Friday, an increasing pressure 
gradient between a wedge of high pressure across land and a coastal 
trough developing off the Southeast Coast supports surging north-
northeast winds and building seas, generally peaking in the 20-25 kt 
and 5-7 ft range. Small Craft Advisories will likely be needed for 
all waters during the weekend, including at times for the Charleston 
Harbor, before the pressure gradient begins to relax heading into 
early next week. 

Rip currents: A Moderate Risk for rip currents is in place for area 
beaches today with onshore winds and a 1-2 ft swell contribution in 
place. An elevated risk for rip currents should occur this weekend 
as astronomical factors and winds become even more favorable for rip 
currents.

&&

.TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
Astronomical influences from the new moon that occurs early this 
morning and the upcoming lunar perigee (Oct 29) will drive elevated 
tides this week. Minor coastal flooding will be possible around the 
times of high tide this morning between Edisto beach and South 
Santee River, including the Downtown Charleston area. Moderate 
coastal flooding is then more likely during morning high tides 
through the weekend with persistent north-northeast winds in place. 
South of Edisto Beach through much of coastal Georgia, minor coastal 
flooding will become a possibility during morning high tide cycles 
this weekend as well.

&&

.CHS WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
GA...None.
SC...None.
MARINE...None.

&&

$$

NEAR TERM...JRL
SHORT TERM...DPB
LONG TERM...DPB
AVIATION...DPB/JRL
MARINE...DPB/TBA
TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
