473 
FXUS63 KGRB 260826
AFDGRB

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Green Bay WI
326 AM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

Forecast discussion for routine morning forecast issuance

.SHORT TERM...Today...Tonight...and Thursday
Issued at 326 AM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

Rain associated with the low pressure system in Lower MI shifted 
east of the region early this morning, leaving dry conditions
over GRB CWA. Stratus clouds lingered along the lakeshore, and
over much of north central and far northeast WI, with mainly high
clouds over central WI and the Fox Valley. Northwest winds were
gusting to 15 to 20 mph at times. The combination of clouds and
winds kept the temperatures from falling much, with readings 
mainly in the middle 30s to middle 40s.

Clouds are expected to decrease from west to east across the
southern part of the forecast area this morning. Stratus will 
likely linger into early to mid afternoon across parts of north 
central and far northeast WI, aided by northwest flow off Lake 
Superior. Northwest winds will gust to 15 to 25 mph in most 
areas, with the highest gusts near Lake Michigan. High
temperatures should be in the lower to middle 40s in north
central WI, and upper 40s to lower 50s elsewhere.

High pressure will bring clear to partly cloudy skies tonight
and Thursday. Cannot rule out the possibility of patchy fog
late tonight, but given the dryness of the incoming air mass,
will hold off on any mention at this time. Lows tonight
should be in the 20s and lower 30s. Highs on Thursday will
be a little milder, with readings in the 50s.

.LONG TERM...Thursday Night Through Tuesday
Issued at 326 AM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

A split flow regime will dominate the extended forecast Thursday
night through Saturday, keeping quiet weather in place. At the 
surface, high pressure will drift towards the eastern Great Lakes,
shifting winds to the south during this period. Despite no major
airmass exchanges, weak southerly flow and sunny skies will work
together to bring high temperatures into the upper 50s and lower
60s.

Sunday, the southern stream system is expected to rejoin the main
flow and bring a broad low pressure system south and east of our
area. The forecast remains dry for this period, Sunday night into
Monday, but an increase in cloud cover can be expected.

As we get into next week, quiet conditions will persist but the
overall pattern will begin building in amplitude again as an upper
trough digs into western CONUS. This will keep the above normal
temperatures in place for early next week as well.
&&

.AVIATION...for 06Z TAF Issuance
Issued at 1047 PM CDT Tue Oct 25 2022

Showers will continue to end across far eastern Wisconsin
overnight, mainly affecting MTW, as a low pressure system lifts
northeast. Radar returns show mainly isolated activity as the main
shield of precipitation has lifted northeast. Cigs should
generally be VFR, with MVFR cigs still possible at times across
central and north-central and along the lakeshore through early
Wednesday morning.

High pressure advecting in from the west will bring drier air and
VFR conditions to the entire area Wednesday morning, lasting 
through the end of the week. Northwest winds will become gusty on
Wednesday, gusting to around 20 knots at times, before dissipating
Wednesday afternoon and evening.
&&

.GRB WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
None.
&&

$$

SHORT TERM.....Kieckbusch
LONG TERM......Uhlmann
AVIATION.......Kurimski
