569 
FXUS63 KGRB 262239
AFDGRB

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Green Bay WI
539 PM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

Updated aviation portion for 00Z TAF issuance

.SHORT TERM...Tonight and Thursday
Issued at 249 PM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

Stratocumulus clouds over the Northwoods should dissipate around 
sunset as a surface high moves into Wisconsin. Clear skies and 
light winds should allow for temperatures a few degrees below normal.

Skies should start out sunny Thursday, with some high clouds
arriving in the afternoon as the high moves off into Michigan. 
South winds will make for high temperatures near normal.

.LONG TERM...Thursday Night Through Wednesday
Issued at 249 PM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

Split flow across the CONUS to persist through the weekend before
a southern stream closed upper low lifts northeast through the
TN/OH Valleys and the flow consolidates. A new potent longwave
trough is forecast to hit the western CONUS next week, however
models disagree on the depth of this trough as well as whether the
trough will begin to move east or not. For northeast WI, a
southwest flow will develop and bring mild conditions to the area.
Precipitation chances looks minimal at best which does not help
the drought conditions over northern WI.

Thursday night and Friday...
The sprawling area of high pressure to extend from the Midwest to
the New England states Thursday night. A return flow already
underway across WI with enough isentropic lift to bring middle and
high clouds to northeast WI. Under partly to mostly cloudy skies,
min temperatures to be in the lower to middle 30s north, middle
30s to around 40 degrees south. Not much changes going into Friday
with little movement of the high pressure and a prevailing
southerly wind. The only change of note will be for less clouds,
thus a mostly sunny sky is anticipated. Temperatures will continue
to slowly warm with readings topping out in the middle 50s north-
central WI/near Lake MI, middle 50s to around 60 degrees
elsewhere.

Friday night and Saturday...
Mostly clear skies and a light south-southwest wind can be
expected Friday night with the high pressure in full control of
northeast WI weather. Almost perfect radiational cooling
conditions will allow for temperatures to fall into the lower to
middle 30s north, middle 30s to around 40 degrees south. The high
pressure will finally begin to lose its grip on the western Great
Lakes region on Saturday, but with no significant weather system
in the vicinity, expect another mostly sunny day over the forecast
area with max temperatures to range from the middle 50s near Lake
MI, upper 50s to lower 60s inland.

Saturday night and Sunday...
Attention turns to a southern stream closed upper low that is
progged to lift northeast into the Ozarks Saturday night, then
weaken into a shortwave trough over western sections of the TN/OH
Valleys on Sunday. There is also a weak northern stream cold front
that is forecast to reach northwest WI by 00Z Monday. There
continues to be some minor timing differences among the models as
to how fast the upper low/trough lifts northeast, however any
precipitation will remain well to our south through Sunday. Other
than some increase in clouds on Sunday, look for max temperatures
to be in the middle 50s lakeside, mainly upper 50s to lower 60s
inland.

Sunday night and Monday...
Even with the model timing issues, the track of the shortwave
trough toward the eastern Great Lakes would keep the brunt (if not
all) of the precipitation to our south and east Sunday night into
Monday. Only the ECMWF continues to be more aggressive with the
western fringe of the precipitation shield glancing southeast WI.
For all intensive purposes, northeast WI will stay dry Sunday
night with sunshine returning for Monday. The aforementioned cold
front is forecast to dissipate and not be a factor in our weather.
Little change in temperatures aloft should translate to another
mild day on Monday with max temperatures again in the middle 50s
near Lake MI, middle 50s to around 60 degrees inland.

Monday night through Wednesday...
Forecast confidence takes a major dip starting on Tuesday as a new
trough hits the western CONUS and the location of a downstream
surface boundary remains in flux among the models. Both the GFS
and CMC show a cold front to drop into the Great Lakes on Tuesday,
while the ECMWF still has the front over the northern Plains/
northern MN. The GFS ensemble actually favors the ECWMF, so plenty
of questions exist for Tuesday. Have leaned the forecast toward
the ECMWF which keeps a southwest wind and mild temperatures over
northeast WI. Max temperatures to be in the upper 50s to lower
60s. Besides the issue with the cold front, models are having
problems with the depth and movement of the upper trough. Does
this trough dig southward along the West Coast or move inland into
the Rockies on Wednesday? Too much spread with the models, so have
gone with the consensus solution which does bring a chance of rain
to northeast WI on Wednesday, mainly due to the frontal boundary
in our vicinity. Max temperatures Wednesday to be in the middle
50s north/near Lake MI, upper 50s to lower 60s south.
&&

.AVIATION...for 00Z TAF Issuance
Issued at 539 PM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

The last patch of MVFR clouds will dissipate across the far north
early this evening, with mostly clear skies and VFR conditions
expected for the rest of the TAF period a high pressure tracks
across the western Great Lakes. Some high clouds are expected to
arrive across central and north-central Wisconsin Thursday
afternoon and evening as the high slides off to the east.
&&

.GRB WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
None.
&&

$$

SHORT TERM.....RDM
LONG TERM......Kallas
AVIATION.......Kurimski
