654 
FXUS63 KGRB 260349
AFDGRB

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Green Bay WI
1049 PM CDT Tue Oct 25 2022

Updated aviation portion for 06Z TAF issuance

.SHORT TERM...Tonight and Wednesday
Issued at 243 PM CDT Tue Oct 25 2022

No significant changes to the short-term portion of the forecast.

Cold front that pushed east across the area early this morning has
become quasistationary over Lake Michigan as developing surface
wave moves northward toward NW Indiana this afternoon. Latest
short-term model guidance seems to be a bit less robust in terms
of forecast QPF for this evening and overnight compared to
previous model runs. Satellite and radar trends over the past few
hours also suggest a bit less organization in the precipitation 
shield over southeast Wisconsin into northern Illinois. In 
addition, CAMS seem to be a bit more progressive with this system
showing the western edge of the rain shield just offshore by 7 am
Wednesday. It appears that the primary bulk of the rainfall will 
fall east of I41, sometime in the 00Z to 08Z time frame with a 
sharp western gradient in the precipitation amounts. Looking at 
maximum rainfall amounts around a half inch or so over Manitowoc 
County. 

After 15Z on Wednesday, should see a gradually decrease in the
clouds with skies becoming mostly sunny from west to east during
the afternoon. Winds will are expected to also be gusty from the
Northwest for much of the day, particularly over the eastern half
of the forecast area. Stayed close to blended guidance for highs
on Wednesday with readings in the upper 40s north to the middle
50s over the southern Fox Valley, which is not far from late
October normals.

.LONG TERM...Wednesday Night Through Tuesday
Issued at 243 PM CDT Tue Oct 25 2022

Split flow regime to exist through the weekend with a northern
stream running north of WI and a southern stream closed upper low.
This upper low is forecast to lift northeast from the southern
Plains and weaken into an upper trough over the east-central CONUS
by the start of the new work week. Models differ on the timing of
this trough, which would impact when (or if) to bring chance pops
back into the forecast. Temperatures look to run above normal
through the extended period.

Wednesday night and Thursday...
High pressure drifts across WI Wednesday night and will keep skies
mostly clear with light/variable winds. Some high clouds may push
toward central WI toward daybreak as warmer air aloft begins to
push northeast from the central Plains. May need to lower
temperatures a bit based on favorable radiational cooling
conditions. This would bring min temperatures down into the lower
to middle 20s north-central WI, lower to middle 30s near Lake MI.
The high pressure shifts east-northeast into southeast Ontario/
eastern Great Lakes region on Thursday, bringing the onset of a
return flow into WI. Anticipate more middle/high clouds to move
into central WI during the day, while eastern WI to remain mostly
sunny. Max temperatures to range from around 50 degrees north/near
Lake MI, lower to middle 50s elsewhere.

Thursday night and Friday...
Even with the center of the high pressure well to our east,
northeast WI to reside on the western fringes of the high
pressure, thus dry conditions to persist Thursday night. Modest
WAA to continue over the western Great Lakes, so more middle/high
clouds to pass overhead. More clouds and a south-southeast wind
will prevent temperatures from falling too far with readings in
the lower to middle 30s north, middle 30s to around 40 degrees
south. Not much changes synoptically going into Friday with the
high pressure to stretch from the Midwest to the New England
states. A continuation of the south-southeast winds and more sun
advertised by the models should bring temperatures back above
normal. Look for max temperatures to range from the lower to
middle 50s near Lake MI, middle 50s north and middle 50s to around
60 degrees south.

Friday night and Saturday...
This high pressure to remain the primary weather feature through
Saturday, therefore pleasant autumn conditions to persist with
above normal temperatures and relatively light southerly winds.
Max temperatures on Saturday to be in the middle 50s lakeside,
upper 50s to lower 60s inland.

Saturday night and Sunday...
After a quiet Saturday night, attention turns to the southern
stream closed upper low that is progged to lift northeast and
begin to weaken on Sunday. Models differ on exactly how fast to
move this upper low with the ECMWF suggesting the mid-MS Valley,
while the GFS is keeping the low over the Ozarks by 00z Monday.
Meanwhile, the CMC takes the low toward the OH/TN Valleys. Prefer
to keep Sunday dry for now until a better consensus is reached.
Potential for more clouds may know a degree or two off of
temperatures for Sunday with readings in the lower to middle 50s
near Lake MI, middle 50s north, middle to upper 50s south.

Sunday night and Monday...
If there is a rain chance, it would be Sunday afternoon into
Sunday night if the ECMWF turns out to be correct. Otherwise, dry
conditions would return on Monday as the bulk of any forcing from
the now-upper trough heads toward the eastern Great Lakes. We
should have more clouds than sun on Monday, however a lack of
change in temperatures aloft should bring max temperatures
comparable to Sunday.

Monday night and Tuesday...
The next forecast issue arises on Tuesday with the eastward
movement of a cold front. Once again, models are in disagreement
with how fast this front will push eastward, thus confidence is
low with respect to precipitation chances. For the time being,
have only mentioned a slight chance of rain showers. Max 
temperatures on Tuesday to generally be in the middle 50s to 
around 60 degrees.
&&

.AVIATION...for 06Z TAF Issuance
Issued at 1047 PM CDT Tue Oct 25 2022

Showers will continue to end across far eastern Wisconsin
overnight, mainly affecting MTW, as a low pressure system lifts
northeast. Radar returns show mainly isolated activity as the main
shield of precipitation has lifted northeast. Cigs should
generally be VFR, with MVFR cigs still possible at times across
central and north-central and along the lakeshore through early
Wednesday morning.

High pressure advecting in from the west will bring drier air and
VFR conditions to the entire area Wednesday morning, lasting 
through the end of the week. Northwest winds will become gusty on
Wednesday, gusting to around 20 knots at times, before dissipating
Wednesday afternoon and evening.
&&

.GRB WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
None.
&&

$$

SHORT TERM.....ESB
LONG TERM......Kallas
AVIATION.......Kurimski
