844 
FXUS65 KBOU 262043
AFDBOU

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Denver/Boulder CO
243 PM MDT Wed Oct 26 2022

.SHORT TERM...(This evening through Thursday)
Issued at 242 PM MDT Wed Oct 26 2022

Quite a bit of sun getting through, especially over the plains, 
at this time. The eastern plains have a mainly southerly wind 
field in place, with weak and variable winds over the rest of the
plains. There is still some snow falling in the mountains, mostly
over the divide. There is an upper closed low circulation now
located over over Idaho. It is progged to push southeastward 
overnight and Thursday. It is progged over the Four Corners on 
Thursday morning at 15Z, then over central New Mexico by 00Z 
Thursday late day. 

The QG Omega fields show decent upward vertical velocity for the CWA 
tonight through about 15Z Thursday morning, then strong downward 
velocity is progged for the rest of Thursday.  There is a decent 
cold front expected to push southward across the plains after 06Z 
overnight. Upslope northerly winds are progged behind it.  Moisture 
is pretty deep over the mountains overnight into Thursday morning. 
Cross sections are showing minimal help from orographics in the 
mountains.  Snowfall amounts still look to get to advisory criteria  
amounts, so left that highlight going for Zones 31, 33, 34. Snow 
accumulation is not expected over most of the plains, with a 
little possible near the foothills and mainly just on grassy 
areas. For temperatures, Thursday highs are 4-6 C cooler than 
today's. 

.LONG TERM...(Thursday night through Wednesday) Issued at 100 PM 
MDT Wed Oct 26 2022

Thursday night and Friday a closed upper low will track from Eastern 
New Mexico across Northern Texas with an upper level ridge of high 
pressure moving across Colorado. As a result, dry weather and 
seasonable temperatures are expected. Over the weekend, a weak upper 
level shortwave will move across the state. This shortwave should 
have little to no impact on the weather across our CWA due to the 
lack of moisture. 

Above normal temperatures are expected to return on Monday as weak 
upper level ridging sets up over the area. On Tuesday, mild and 
dry weather is expected to continue as the flow aloft becomes 
southwesterly in response to an upper level trough deepening over 
the Western U.S. Mild, dry and somewhat breezy conditions may lead
to elevated fire weather conditions across portions of the plains
both Monday and Tuesday. Cooler unsettled weather will be 
possible by mid-week as the upper trough approaches Colorado from 
the west. 

&&

.AVIATION...(For the 18Z TAFS through 18Z Thursday afternoon)
Issued at 1120 AM MDT Wed Oct 26 2022

Models show pretty weak winds for DIA this afternoon. Most keep
some sort of easterly component to the direction. Models do not 
show normal drainage patterns to kick in this evening, but keep 
some weak upslope going. The surge of northerly winds still move 
in around 09Z Thursday morning. Will make only minor changes to 
the ceilings overnight and Thursday morning. 


&&

.BOU WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
Winter Weather Advisory from 6 PM this evening to noon MDT 
Thursday for COZ031-033-034.

&&

$$

SHORT TERM...RJK
LONG TERM....jk
AVIATION.....RJK
