942 
FXUS65 KBOU 260613
AFDBOU

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Denver/Boulder CO
1213 AM MDT Wed Oct 26 2022

.UPDATE...
Issued at 900 PM MDT Tue Oct 25 2022

There is a little disturbance approaching in the mostly westerly 
flow aloft and the next shortwave isn't far behind that, coming on
shore over the Pacific Northwest. Skies are mostly cloudy to 
overcast across most of northeast Colorado. There are some light 
snow showers around the peaks of the Front Range which will 
persist through the night. Radar suggests there may be a few very 
light rain showers on the eastern plains as well, but it's harder 
to say. The forecast is performing well with only minor updates 
this evening.

&&

.SHORT TERM...(This evening through Wednesday)
Issued at 254 PM MDT Tue Oct 25 2022

Satellite and RAP mesoanalysis show that... not a whole lot has 
changed since the morning AFD. Colorado remains underneath 
westerly flow aloft, with moisture increasing slightly over the 
past several hours. As a result, there's been a slight uptick in 
snow showers across the northern mountains, particularly the Park 
and Medicine Bow Ranges, where webcams and SNOTEL data have 
suggested at least some light accumulations have already occurred.

Snow is expected to continue across the higher terrain overnight,
gradually shifting south this evening. There should be a slight 
increase in coverage and intensity towards daybreak Wednesday as 
QG ascent increases, with a couple inches of snow expected. A cold
front will also push across the plains overnight, with mid-level 
frontogenesis (and its accompanying lift) along with some weak 
upslope flow might be enough for a few rain and snow showers over 
the plains, though temperatures will likely be too warm to support
any accumulation below 7000 feet.

Wednesday will see snow showers continuing across the mountains. 
The flow aloft will shift more to the west-southwest ahead of an 
approaching trough, so most of the snow should be focused on the 
Park and Gore ranges early in the day. Across the plains, a few 
light showers may continue along the Wyoming border, but otherwise
it should be mostly quiet. 

Precipitation should increase across the mountains yet again by 
late Wednesday afternoon as PVA associated with the approaching 
shortwave should lead to a brief period of enhanced rates. For 
more details on the snow Wednesday night into Thursday keep 
reading the section below...

.LONG TERM...(Wednesday night through Tuesday)
Issued at 254 PM MDT Tue Oct 25 2022

There's reasonable agreement on the trough moving across Colorado
Wednesday night into Thursday. Minor differences on QPF and
temperature do affect snow prospects for Denver, as most of the
models are struggling to get cold enough while most ECMWF ensemble
members do produce an inch of snow. It's only a degree or two so
it's hard to pick a winner at this point. With the QG lift sliding
southeast from the northern mountains and the surge of upslope,
this could be a scenario where there's a definite focus of
precipitation sliding south along the foothills from Boulder to
Douglas county with much less elsewhere. We've generally accepted
the NBM QPF but raised PoPs and bumped up the snow ratio a bit for
a bit more snow in the mountains and a little accumulation where
it does snow along the foothills.

The lift moves out and drier air, subsidence, and warming aloft
come in quick behind it later Thursday. This should set up a
cooler night for Denver and Boulder with a more definite freeze
for most spots Friday morning. Temperatures should pop back up to
near 60 in Denver for Friday through Sunday, with valley areas
lagging a little in cold pools for at least the first day. A
shortwave passing north of us Sunday could bring some clouds, then
we go to a bit more flow from the west or southwest for early next
week that should provide some wind in the wind prone areas. Faster
solutions would bring some moisture in the southwest flow by
Tuesday, but probably not enough for mountain snow yet. There
could be a couple of marginal fire weather days in the early to
middle part of next week ahead of the next trough when it looks
dry, warm, and breezy.

&&

.AVIATION...(For the 06Z TAFS through 06Z Wednesday night)
Issued at 1131 PM MDT Tue Oct 25 2022

Radar currently shows some very weak reflectivities aloft that are
not reaching the surface. While it's possible some rain or snow
showers reach the surface, the visibility will not be reduced
tonight. The main forecast issue will be determining ceiling
height for the rest of tonight. Ceilings in the 6-8 kft range seem
the most likely which is on the verge of ILS. 

Clouds and ceilings will break during the day Wednesday. Winds 
will strengthen out of the southeast after 16Z and could gust up
to 22 knots. Models are hinting that a DCVZ may develop over DEN
and APA. This has a chance to shift winds to the northwest in the
afternoon. If the boundary doesn't develop, winds will stay
southeasterly and will weaken. 

Around 04-07Z Thursday, a band of rain and snow showers will move
off the higher terrain towards the terminals. This will eventually
lower visibility and ceilings early Thursday morning. In addition,
a cold front will come down from the north and will turn winds to
the north with gusts up to 25 knots possible. 

&&

.BOU WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
None.
&&

$$

UPDATE...EJD
SHORT TERM...Hiris
LONG TERM...Gimmestad
AVIATION...Danielson
