919 
FXUS65 KBOU 261144
AFDBOU

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Denver/Boulder CO
544 AM MDT Wed Oct 26 2022

.SHORT TERM...(Today and tonight)
Issued at 331 AM MDT Wed Oct 26 2022

Water vapor imagery shows westerly flow over Colorado ahead of a 
shortwave trough that is moving through northern Utah. There is an
area of mid to high level moisture that extends over our forecast
area ahead of this trough which is creating light snow in the 
mountains and virga across the plains. There is not much in terms 
of reflectivity on the KFTG radar and it is reflected in the 
observations as the lowest visibility from snow showers is 7 miles
currently. The Grand Junction radar shows increasing 
reflectivities as moisture and QG ascent becomes better 
immediately ahead of the shortwave axis. This area of light 
precipitation will move over our forecast area during the mid to 
late morning hours. The western slopes of the mountains could 
receive an inch or two of snow, mainly along the I-70 mountain 
corridor. Across the plains, the low levels remain too dry for 
most showers to reach the surface although a few sprinkles or 
flurries can't be ruled out though. When the axis of the shortwave
trough moves past our CWA this afternoon, skies will become 
mostly sunny and the majority of the precipitation will come to 
an end. The reason for not starting the Winter Weather Advisory 
during the daylight hours today is due to the light nature of the
snow this morning and the break in the snow this afternoon.
Having said that, precipitation will not completely come to an 
end this afternoon. The sunshine will create steep lapse rates 
that could develop a few convective showers. Otherwise, high 
temperatures will be in the 50s across the plains, the 30s in the 
mountain valleys, and the 20s in the mountains. 

A secondary, stronger shortwave trough will move into western 
Colorado later tonight. A combination of strong PVA and low to mid 
level frontogenesis will aid in creating upward forcing for moderate 
to potentially heavy precipitation to form. Models are coming into 
better agreement that a band of snow will setup in the mountains 
Wednesday night associated with a cold front that moves across 
the area. This band could have snowfall rates in excess of 1 inch 
per hour and it appears it will setup somewhere in-between Rocky 
Mountain National Park and the Eisenhower Tunnel. Snow may pile 
up quickly under this band with up to 4 inches in 6 hours expected
in the heavier hit spots. It is because of this threat for heavy 
snow rates that a Winter Weather Advisory was issued for all our 
mountain zones. Travel will be hazardous under the bands of snow 
and it will be good to draw attention to that travel risk with a 
highlight. Overall, storm total snowfall amounts will be 4 to 8 
inches in the mountain zones with lighter amounts in the valleys. 

Across the plains, there will be a few rain showers in the evening 
with light rainfall rates. The majority of the plains will stay 
dry until a cold front moves across after midnight. This front 
will move down the I-25 corridor with northerly gusts up to 30 
mph behind it. This will add low level forcing and will cool 
temperatures. An area of light to moderate showers will develop 
over the northern I-25 corridor and will move southward Thursday 
morning. Model consensus indicates that 0.1-0.2" of QPF is most 
likely across the I-25 corridor and that is in the forecast. 
However, some of the high resolution models indicate the potential
for much more QPF if the forcing all aligns. In addition, the 
ECMWF ensembles show higher QPF and snowfall values for the I-25
corridor than the Canadian and GFS ensembles so that trend will
need to be monitored. The precipitation will start as rain but 
will transition over to snow after about 3 AM. The first 
accumulating snowfall of the year for the urban corridor is 
certainly possible but not guaranteed due to above freezing 
temperatures during the time of snow and the relatively warm 
ground temperatures. A trace to 1 inch of snow is forecast 
especially across the western suburbs of Denver.

.LONG TERM...(Thursday through Tuesday)
Issued at 331 AM MDT Wed Oct 26 2022

Thursday...

Thursday morning, the main trough axis remains just off to the 
west. Guidance is in good agreement that the region will remain 
under the influence of weak to moderate QG ascent with sufficient 
moisture, and SW flow aloft. This will favor continued snow 
showers over the high country with additional couple inches of 
accumulation. The Winter Weather Advisory will remain in effect 
during this morning period for our mountain zones. Impacts will be
minor with slick roads possible Thursday morning.

Additionally, a cold front moves southward across the region 
starting early Thursday morning bringing mid-level frontogenesis 
(additional lift) supporting enhancement of showers and further 
development eastward onto the lower elevations. Hi-res models also 
show a chance for weak upslope component flow to support light snow 
accumulations for the Palmer Divide. Light rain/snow showers will 
also be possible for the foothills and into the I-25 corridor. 

There is some question if the I-25 corridor will be cold enough for 
snow with further west areas such as Boulder having a better shot 
for it. In regards to QPF, the ECMWF and its respective
deterministic and ensemble solutions trends higher in QPF 
compared to the GFS/GEFS solutions. HRRR also seems to follow the 
"wetter" trend in recent runs as well, evident for the higher 
mountains and Boulder County. Will have to see if the next runs of
the HRRR show consistency with this. For now will go with the 
ensemble mean favoring the potential for light accumulations for 
the foothills, adjacent plains, and Palmer Divide with perhaps a 
dusting to a trace for eastward areas of the urban corridor. 
Showers decrease into the afternoon as the backside of the trough 
moves through with dry subsident flow working in. It should also 
be fairly cool Thursday with highs below normal in the upper 40s 
to 50s for the plains. 

Friday through early next week...

A brief ridge builds over the region Friday followed by a more 
zonal/general trough pattern Saturday into early next week. 
Temperatures return to normal values and conditions trend drier 
during this period. With marginally breezy conditions possible, this 
may bring back the potential for elevated fire weather conditions. 
There is a general consensus in a trough approaching the region by 
mid-week.

&&

.AVIATION...(For the 12Z TAFS through 12Z Thursday morning)
Issued at 533 AM MDT Wed Oct 26 2022

Ceilings will stay around 8-10 kft for the majority of the day as
mid level cloudiness will be over the area. It can't be ruled out
that a rain shower reaches the ground at a terminal this morning
but they will be light and won't have an impact on visibility. 
Winds will continue to be southeast through the morning and may
become more variable in direction and speed in the afternoon. 

Tonight, a band of rain and snow showers will move off the higher
terrain towards the terminals in the 04-07Z timeframe. The showers
will become more widespread after 08-09Z and will eventually 
lower visibility and ceilings. MVFR or IFR visibility and ceiling
heights are possible through the late morning on Thursday. In 
addition, a cold front will come down from the north and will turn
winds to the north with gusts up to 25 knots possible.

&&

.BOU WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
Winter Weather Advisory from 6 PM this evening to noon MDT 
Thursday for COZ031-033-034.

&&

$$

SHORT TERM...Danielson
LONG TERM...Mensch
AVIATION...Danielson
