473 
FXUS63 KSGF 262231
AFDSGF

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Springfield MO
531 PM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

Key Messages:

1. Seasonal temperatures are expected through the upcoming 
weekend.

2. A surface low is expected to track across Texas up through the
Missouri Bootheel Saturday and Sunday. This system could bring 
light rain amounts over southern Missouri, with the best rain 
chances over south central Missouri Saturday and Sunday.

3. Warmer than normal weather is expected to return next week. 

.SHORT TERM...(This evening through Thursday)
Issued at 310 PM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

The weather looks quiet for this period. 

A north-south sfc ridge over the area today will shift off to the
east with winds veering to the southeast tonight and Thursday. 
Some increase in high clouds is expected as a subtle/weak 
shortwave moves into the area late tonight and then a stronger 
system moves into the High Plains. 

Temperatures look to be cooler than normal for lows tonight
(30s/low 40s). Highs will be near/slightly below normal for
Thursday (low-mid 60s). 

.LONG TERM...(Friday through Wednesday) 
Issued at 310 PM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

Friday-Sunday: There is good guidance agreement with a sfc low 
tracking from Texas to the MO Bootheel region Friday through 
midday Sunday. Some questions remain on how far north the rain 
will make it over the weekend, but far southern Missouri looks 
like a good bet. Rainfall amounts look fairly light and not 
expecting adverse weather (flooding impacts). The bulk of the 
rain is expected Saturday but some clouds/light precip look to 
linger into Sunday with low stratus. A quick look at progged 
sounding indicate clouds may linger well into Sunday. 

Monday-Wednesday: Ensembles/ensemble means are in good agreement 
with mid level height rises and warmer/above normal temperatures 
and dry weather. 

&&

.AVIATION...(For the 00Z TAFS through 00Z Thursday evening)
Issued at 530 PM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

VFR conditions will occur across the area this evening and the 
day on Thursday as high pressure will remain over the region 
moves east. High clouds could increase across the northern 
portions of the area this evening into tonight. Winds will start 
to increase out of the southeast and could be a little gusty at 
times on Thursday as the area of high pressure moves east and the 
pressure gradient increases across the area. 

&&

.SGF WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
MO...NONE.
KS...NONE.
&&

$$

SHORT TERM...DSA
LONG TERM...DSA
AVIATION...Wise
