417 
FXUS63 KSGF 261737
AFDSGF

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Springfield MO
1237 PM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

Key Messages:

1. Seasonal temperatures through the upcoming weekend. 

2. Next upper level low tracks across central Texas up through the
Missouri Bootheel Saturday and Sunday. This system could bring
light rain amounts over southern Missouri, with the best rain
chances over south central Missouri Saturday and Sunday. 

3. Much warmer temperatures and dry weather on tap for next work 
week.

.SHORT TERM...(Today and Thursday)

It was a quiet and cool night over extreme southeast Kansas and
the Missouri Ozarks. A Canadian airmass settled over the region, cooling
temperatures into the 30s and 40s under clear skies and light 
breezes. High pressure will continue to work over the region today
bringing plenty of sunshine. Highs today will warm into the 60s.

For tonight, similar conditions are expected with lows in the 30s
and 40s. Southeast winds at the surface will return helping to
provide some consistency in temperatures heading into Thursday
with highs back in the 60s. 

.LONG TERM...(Friday through Tuesday)

Heading into Friday, another mid latitude cyclone matures over the
southern Plains. Models continue to trend further south with this
track, which would limit the amount of rainfall that occurs 
across the CWA Saturday and Sunday. At this time, the low is 
expected to weaken and eject northeast near the Missouri 
Bootheel. This would bring the best rain chances across south 
central Missouri with limited amounts. 

It's not out of the realm of possibility that light rain can 
occur further northwest, but we will fine tune this with time. 
This system brings more of a Pacific based airmass with it, which 
would bring afternoon high temperatures in the 60s, with overnight
lows limited in the 40s through the weekend. These temperatures
are very normal for the time of year. 

As the weekend storm system exits east, strong height rises occur
with upper level ridging favored in most solutions through all of
next work week. This pattern would suggest highs reaching the 70s
each day next week, with above average overnight lows. The 
pattern would also suggest good chances for dry weather for
several days next week. 

&&

.AVIATION...(For the 18Z TAFS through 18Z Thursday afternoon)
Issued at 1228 PM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

KSGF/KJLN/KBBG tafs: VFR. North-South oriented sfc ridge axis 
over the region now will shift east. Light north-northeast winds 
will veer to the southeast and increasing somewhat late in the 
period as a sfc low moves into the central/southern High Plains. 
Some increase in cirrus level clouds are expected later in the 
period. 

&&

.SGF WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
MO...NONE.
KS...NONE.
&&

$$

SHORT TERM...Cramer
LONG TERM...Cramer
AVIATION...DSA
