630 
FXUS63 KSGF 262025
AFDSGF

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Springfield MO
325 PM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

Key Messages:

1. Seasonal temperatures are expected through the upcoming 
weekend.

2. A surface low is expected to track across Texas up through the
Missouri Bootheel Saturday and Sunday. This system could bring 
light rain amounts over southern Missouri, with the best rain 
chances over south central Missouri Saturday and Sunday.

3. Warmer than normal weather is expected to return next week. 

.SHORT TERM...(This evening through Thursday)
Issued at 310 PM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

The weather looks quiet for this period. 

A north-south sfc ridge over the area today will shift off to the
east with winds veering to the southeast tonight and Thursday. 
Some increase in high clouds is expected as a subtle/weak 
shortwave moves into the area late tonight and then a stronger 
system moves into the High Plains. 

Temperatures look to be cooler than normal for lows tonight
(30s/low 40s). Highs will be near/slightly below normal for
Thursday (low-mid 60s). 


.LONG TERM...(Friday through Wednesday) 
Issued at 310 PM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

Friday-Sunday: There is good guidance agreement with a sfc low 
tracking from Texas to the MO Bootheel region Friday through 
midday Sunday. Some questions remain on how far north the rain 
will make it over the weekend, but far southern Missouri looks 
like a good bet. Rainfall amounts look fairly light and not 
expecting adverse weather (flooding impacts). The bulk of the 
rain is expected Saturday but some clouds/light precip look to 
linger into Sunday with low stratus. A quick look at progged 
sounding indicate clouds may linger well into Sunday. 

Monday-Wednesday: Ensembles/ensemble means are in good agreement 
with mid level height rises and warmer/above normal temperatures 
and dry weather. 

&&

.AVIATION...(For the 18Z TAFS through 18Z Thursday afternoon)
Issued at 1228 PM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

KSGF/KJLN/KBBG tafs: VFR. North-South oriented sfc ridge axis 
over the region now will shift east. Light north-northeast winds 
will veer to the southeast and increasing somewhat late in the 
period as a sfc low moves into the central/southern High Plains. 
Some increase in cirrus level clouds are expected later in the 
period. 


&&

.SGF WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
MO...NONE.
KS...NONE.
&&

$$

SHORT TERM...DSA
LONG TERM...DSA
AVIATION...DSA
