899 
FXUS63 KSGF 260455
AFDSGF

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Springfield MO
1155 PM CDT Tue Oct 25 2022

...Updated 06Z Aviation Discussion...

Key Messages:

1. Widespread rainfall event ends this evening. Cool and breezy
evening ahead. 

2. Near average temperatures and dry Wednesday through Friday. 
Next chance of rain arrives Friday night-Saturday.

.SHORT TERM...(This evening through Wednesday)
Issued at 214 PM CDT Tue Oct 25 2022

Current Conditions and Synoptic Pattern: A strong upper level low
could be seen on water vapor imagery across south central Missouri
(near West Plains) with a surface low slightly east of there. The
area has seen a widespread 2-4 inches of rainfall with this 
system over the past 36 hours. Gusty northwest winds around 30mph,
clouds/rain and low level cold air advection were keeping 
temperatures in the lower to middle 40s across the area this 
afternoon. 

Rain Ending This Evening: The last few bands of rain were moving
across the area this afternoon. An additional half to one inch of
rainfall will occur with this activity. Consensus of short term
models has this precip completely east of the area after sunset
with skies becoming clear shortly after. Drier air will continue 
to filter into the area tonight with temps falling into the 30s 
for lows tonight.

Dry Wednesday: Zonal upper level flow will develop Wednesday with
mostly sunny skies and light winds. NBM high temp spreads are very
small with most locations reaching the lower to middle 60s. 

.LONG TERM...(Wednesday Night through Tuesday)
Issued at 214 PM CDT Tue Oct 25 2022

Mainly dry and quiet until Friday night: Ensemble guidance 
suggests the zonal flow pattern will continue through the end of
the week with NBM highs fairly clustered together closely in the 
60s. Cluster analysis continues to suggests an upper level low 
that moves out of the rockies and into the Red River Valley on 
Friday. Models have been trending this system further south and 
slower with drier northeast winds across the area on Friday. The 
GFS ensemble cluster is the furthest south and driest of the 
ensembles. As the upper low lifts on Saturday, there is agreement 
from enough ensemble members to continue the 20-30% rain chances 
south of Interstate 44 during the day. Rainfall amount 
probabilities also remain low with the NBM probabilities of 0.25in
of rain at or below 20%. 

Ensembles then continue the zonal flow pattern early next
week. This pattern would likely lead to near or slightly above 
average temps and very low precip chances (less than 10%). Latest
CIPS extended analog guidance and the latest CPC outlooks 
does build confidence in slightly above average temps (3-5deg 
above normal) for most of next week. 

&&

.AVIATION...(For the 06Z TAFS through 06Z Wednesday night)
Issued at 1155 PM CDT Tue Oct 25 2022

High confidence in VFR conditions prevailing through the TAF
period. Winds will remain light at 5 to 10 knots out of the
northwest through early Wednesday morning, becoming northeast by
the afternoon. Mostly clear skies and dry weather expected.

&&

.SGF WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
MO...NONE.
KS...NONE.
&&

$$

SHORT TERM...Burchfield
LONG TERM...Burchfield
AVIATION...Perez
