037 
FXUS63 KTOP 261752
AFDTOP

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Topeka KS
1252 PM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

...Update to aviation forecast discussion...

.DISCUSSION...
Issued at 259 AM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

Key points:

* Small precipitation chances north today, greater chances late 
  tonight into Thursday night.

* Temperatures fairly steady before warming next week.

Zonal flow taking over across the central third of the CONUS per 
recent water vapor imagery. Mid and high-level clouds were spreading 
east into western portions of Kansas early this morning downstream 
of an upper trough digging into the Pacific Northwest.

A few periods of mid-level isentropic lift bring precipitation 
chances today into Thursday night. The first is later this 
morning into the early afternoon over northern Kansas. Recent 
HRRR runs have backed off on intensity of this precip but still 
suggest a narrow band of showers moving northeast through this 
area. Moisture depths and quality are low but some small PoPs seem
in order. The next round comes late tonight into Thursday night 
as the Northwest trough continues southeast through the central 
Rockies and into west Texas. Ascent and moisture quality is more 
robust and models are rather similar in light precipitation 
developing in mainly north-central Kansas. Have maintained NBM 
mid-range PoPs with some concern this signal may be more 
transient as the upper trough is well-removed. Temperatures 
Thursday should be a bit cooler in at least isolated precip in 
north-central Kansas but overall temperatures look fairly 
consistent through the weekend with only modest low-level
advections, close to late October normals. There is small 
potential for the northwest quadrant of the forming upper low to 
move close enough to east-central Kansas to bring light precip 
here Saturday night into Sunday but chances look too low to 
mention. Upper pattern shifts to western trough/eastern ridge 
early next week with warmer temperatures likely.

&&

.AVIATION...(For the 18Z TAFS through 18Z Thursday afternoon)
Issued at 1252 PM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

VFR conditions with no hazards anticipated for the period. A light
breeze out of the ESE continues with winds increasing near the end
of the period tomorrow morning.

&&

.TOP WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
NONE.
&&

$$

DISCUSSION...65
AVIATION...Drake
