537 
FXUS63 KTOP 260533
AFDTOP

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Topeka KS
1233 AM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

...Update to aviation forecast discussion...

.DISCUSSION...
Issued at 238 PM CDT Tue Oct 25 2022

Forecast Key Points:

- Temperatures around seasonal for the week.

- Chances for Thursday afternoon / evening rain mainly over north 
central areas.

Forecast Discussion:

Currently an upper low partially detached from the mean flow has 
continued to translate east into the mid/lower MS Valley regions. 
Quasi-zonal flow is setting up across the center of the CONUS while 
another Pacific trough digs into the Pacific northwest region. 
Surface boundaries are all well east and southeast of the forecast 
area with surface high pressure continuing to build into the area 
with a dry and cool fall airmass in place for the remainder of the 
week. 

Persistence will be the main theme in the forecast with fall type 
weather in place as highs will remain seasonal in the 60s and lows 
around 40 into the upcoming weekend before slightly warming by the 
end of the period. Rain chances on Thursday afternoon/evening look 
to be the most active part of the forecast period. Weak isentropic 
ascent is forecast to develop on the northeast flank of the 
aforementioned Pacific system as it digs into the southern Plains 
region. This signal doesn't appear to have much consistency amongst 
deterministic solutions at the present time. Will start looking more 
at consistency in the ensemble members into tomorrow but right now 
there is only a meaningful clustering in amounts below a tenth of an 
inch. Not anticipating much meaningful moisture with this short 
duration precipitation but those that see any will be the lucky 
ones most likely.

&&

.AVIATION...(For the 06Z TAFS through 06Z Wednesday night)
Issued at 1233 AM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

VFR conditions are expected. A well-mixed boundary layer Tuesday
afternoon with crossover temps several degrees below the coldest
low temperature guidance keeps the diurnal ground fog threat quite
limited despite little cloud and light winds. Modest southeast 
winds take hold during the day Wednesday under increasing mid/high
cloud. 

&&

.TOP WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
NONE.
&&

$$

DISCUSSION...Drake
AVIATION...65
