340 
FXUS63 KTOP 261929
AFDTOP

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Topeka KS
229 PM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

.DISCUSSION...
Issued at 228 PM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

Forecast Key Points:

- A short period of light isolated rain along Hwy 36 this afternoon.

- Best chance for measurable rainfall for the remainder of the week 
into the afternoon and early evening tomorrow of north central areas.

- Seasonal temps for the week and warmer into next week.


Forecast Discussion:

Currently, mainly zonal flow is stretched over the region upstream 
from the departing eastern CONUS trough. A weak open mid level 
shortwave is providing enough lift to support a band of light rain 
generally along Hwy 36 to the KS/NE border. This is likely very 
light and intermittent as Marysville has recently reported drizzle. 
Impressive that it has been able to reach the ground though 
regardless. A more meaningful trough is currently over the 
Intermountain West region with a defined cyclonic curvature showing 
up on WV imagery which should continue to deepen into an upper level 
low. 

A weak lead shortwave breaks away from this incoming upper level 
feature into the day tomorrow. Isentropic ascent should develop with 
sufficient moisture saturation to support a steady light rain into 
afternoon and early evening periods tomorrow over north central 
areas. Eastward extent of rainfall for tomorrow could exhibit a 
fairly sharp cutoff as lift appears to be generally less over 
eastern areas with only limited amounts of ascent. So confidence in 
rain is higher over western areas and much less over eastern zones. 
Superensemble data suggest that amounts may be slightly higher than 
previous forecasts with good clustering through two-tenths of an 
inch. There are more members than previously at amounts around four-
tenths of an inch as well. Of course instability not anticipated to 
play a major factor in increased amounts so have kept forecast 
amounts on the low end.  

Depending on the track of the upper low as it slowly pinwheels 
through the southern Plains and lifts into the mid MS Valley region, 
east central areas could see some light precipitation Saturday 
evening. Chances still too low to mention. Heights rise with ridging 
overhead into early next week. Southerly flow pattern should help 
temperatures push into the upper 70s but still mainly pleasant fall 
weather in place through the period.

&&

.AVIATION...(For the 18Z TAFS through 18Z Thursday afternoon)
Issued at 1252 PM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

VFR conditions with no hazards anticipated for the period. A light
breeze out of the ESE continues with winds increasing near the end
of the period tomorrow morning.


&&

.TOP WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
NONE.
&&

$$

DISCUSSION...Drake
AVIATION...Drake
