479 
FXUS63 KBIS 261915
AFDBIS

AREA FORECAST DISCUSSION
National Weather Service Bismarck ND
215 PM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

.SHORT TERM...(This Evening through Thursday night)
Issued at 214 PM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

Light precipitation is possible tonight into Thursday morning in 
the south central as weak shortwave energy passes through the 
Dakotas. Based on forecast soundings, the lower atmosphere should 
be warm enough to prevent any snow and keep the precipitation 
type as rain only. Any rain totals will likely be light at a 
couple to few hundredths of an inch at most. Beyond that, expect 
quiet weather through the period.

For tonight, light winds are expected across the area, with partly 
cloudy skies north. This will likely allow the development of 
patchy fog once again in much of the northern and parts of the 
western CWA. This is especially true in the northwest where 
melting snow this afternoon will provide additional boundary layer
moisture to support fog development. 

For the most part, winds remain light on Thursday and transition
from a southerly to southwesterly direction. Once winds become 
southwesterly, a little downslope enhancement along the Missouri 
Coteau will lead to a narrow strip of breezy conditions. This will
be most discernible from surrounding winds Thursday night. 
Temperatures will be seasonable for this time of year with highs 
limited to the mid 40s in parts of the northwest due to existing 
snowpack, and to the mid 50s elsewhere. Lows tonight and Thursday 
night will mostly drop into the mid 20s to mid 30s.

.LONG TERM...(Friday through Wednesday) 
Issued at 214 PM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

Zonal flow aloft will dominate the majority of the period before
indications are that a west CONUS trough will develop beyond
Monday, or likely in the Tuesday/Wednesday timeframe. As a 
result, mostly dry and seasonably above average temperatures are 
expected with highs in the 50s to low 60s through Monday. Through 
Monday night, lows will mostly be in the 30s with an occasional 
upper 20s or low 40s reading mixed in as well. To go along with 
the developing west CONUS trough, NBM ensemble forecasts suggest a
cooling trend beyond next Monday, along with increased 
precipitation chances.

&&

.AVIATION...(For the 18Z TAFS through 18Z Thursday Afternoon)
Issued at 1233 PM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

Light winds along with VFR ceilings and visibilities will prevail
for the most part through the period. The are only a couple
concerns. First, there may be patchy fog tonight into Thursday 
morning. The terminal most likely to see fog is KXWA, but wouldn't
be completely surprised if fog doesn't creep into KMOT or KDIK 
either. The second issue is that there is a slight chance of 
light rain occurring at KJMS tonight and into early Thursday 
morning.


&&

.BIS WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
None.
&&

$$

SHORT TERM...Telken
LONG TERM...Telken
AVIATION...Telken
