229 
FXUS63 KBIS 261733
AFDBIS

AREA FORECAST DISCUSSION
National Weather Service Bismarck ND
1233 PM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

.UPDATE...
Issued at 1233 PM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

A little patchy fog continues to linger in the northwest, but
continues to rapidly burn off per satellite imagery. The main
update at this time was to adjust sky cover. The remainder of the
forecast remains on track.

UPDATE Issued at 930 AM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

Patchy fog remains in northwestern portions of the state, 
although conditions are improving. Fog should fully dissipate over
the next couple hours. Nevertheless, extended patchy fog mentions
for another couple hours to account for this. Otherwise, the 
remainder of the forecast remains on track.

UPDATE Issued at 634 AM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

Visibilities continue to bounce around as patchy fog is
inconsistent across the northwest and southern James River Valley.
This fog should lessen through the morning, especially as what's 
left of low stratus across the north and central diminishes. No
change to our thinking for rain chances tonight, and no
significant changes to the forecast with this update. 

&&

.SHORT TERM...(Today and Tonight)
Issued at 311 AM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

Seasonable temperatures and a slight chance of rain in the south
central and James River Valley tonight highlight the short term
period. 

The synoptic pattern this morning was characterized by broad
troughing across the majority of the CONUS, with closed lows over
the Ohio Valley area and northern Manitoba, and an embedded
shortwave trough over the Pacific NW. Broad surface high pressure
is centered well to our south, and a warm front is oriented
northwest-southeast across the forecast area. The main concern in
the early morning period is patchy fog across both the northwest
and the south central / southeast, with a few observations in both
areas reporting reduced visibilities. High-res guidance has been
more consistently advertising the fog potential in the northwest,
but the latest HRRR run latches on to the possibility in the
southern James River Valley, so will keep an eye on both these
areas through the early morning hours. 

Cloud cover is expected to diminish through the morning and into
the afternoon, and quiet weather will persist through the day,
with light winds and highs from the lower 40s north to mid 50s 
south.

As split flow begins to develop later today, a weak wave will move
through the northern stream flow, with the bulk of the associated
energy moving south of the forecast area. We continue to carry low
PoPs in our far south central and southeast this evening through
the night, with light rain possible but forecast QPF amounts
staying low. The trend in the past few updates has been to keep
precipitation chances further south, with PoPs limited to south of
Interstate 94 in the James River Valley. Expect increased cloud
cover with this wave as well, which will keep overnight lows in
the southeast in the mid 30s, compared to lows in the mid 20s
north. 

.LONG TERM...(Thursday through Tuesday)
Issued at 311 AM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

Above normal temperatures and dry weather through the end of
October highlights the extended forecast. 

Rain chances from tonight could linger in the far southern James 
River Valley on Thursday morning, but should move out rather
quickly as the wave exits. Expect partly cloudy skies and highs
from the upper 40s to mid 50s.

There is high confidence in the forecast Friday through Monday, 
with the latest NBM 4.1 run showing extremely low chances for 
precipitation, and low spread in temperature percentiles, a sign 
of good agreement among ensemble members. With the previously 
mentioned split flow aloft developing, flow over the Northern 
Plains looks to stay quasi-zonal through the weekend, with a few 
embedded waves bringing some increases in clouds but no 
significant impacts. The current forecast has highs in the 50s 
across the entire forecast area Friday through Monday, with highs 
in the lower 60s possible in the south on Friday and Monday. There
could be some breezy winds at times, but otherwise, looking like 
quite a nice weekend to round out the month of October. 

After Monday, a modest cooling trend is evident, with highs
potentially returning back to the 40s for the middle of next work
week. There is also a signal for a more active pattern to return,
with CPC outlooks, CIPs extended analogs, and NBM probabilities 
all showing increased precipitation chances for the end of next
week. 

&&

.AVIATION...(For the 18Z TAFS through 18Z Thursday Afternoon)
Issued at 1233 PM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

Light winds along with VFR ceilings and visibilities will prevail
for the most part through the period. The are only a couple
concerns. First, there may be patchy fog tonight into Thursday 
morning. The terminal most likely to see fog is KXWA, but wouldn't
be completely surprised if fog doesn't creep into KMOT or KDIK 
either. The second issue is that there is a slight chance of 
light rain occurring at KJMS tonight and into early Thursday 
morning.

&&

.BIS WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
None.
&&

$$

UPDATE...Telken
SHORT TERM...Jones
LONG TERM...Jones
AVIATION...Telken
