203 
FXUS63 KBIS 260250
AFDBIS

AREA FORECAST DISCUSSION
National Weather Service Bismarck ND
950 PM CDT Tue Oct 25 2022

.UPDATE...
Issued at 950 PM CDT Tue Oct 25 2022

Updates were made to the cloud cover again to match with current
satellite trends. The possibility of fog still exists in the
northwest, both the RAP and HRRR have high RH after 06z. 

UPDATE Issued at 640 PM CDT Tue Oct 25 2022

Just some minor updates to the cloud cover based on the current
satellite trends. The RAP is still showing the possibility of fog
in the northwest with RH near 100 percent around midnight. 

&&

.SHORT TERM...(This Evening through Wednesday)
Issued at 138 PM CDT Tue Oct 25 2022

The main forecast issue in the short term period will be sky cover
and temperatures tonight. 

Currently, weak high pressure is situated over the forecast area.
An exiting shortwave that brought some light snow to the northern
tier counties this morning is exiting the area. Additional light
reflectivities capable of producing a sprinkle or flurry were
located over southeast Saskatchewan into southern Manitoba. This
could rotate into northern ND late this afternoon or this evening
and produce a brief sprinkle/flurry but only trace amounts are
expected with no impacts. 

Warm advection will overspread the CWA from west to east tonight
with a few bands of clouds expected to linger across mainly
northern ND, but at times may extend into central or even southern
ND. The warm advection and clouds would indicate mild overnight
lows (relatively speaking) but with our recent snow there remains
a pretty sizable area of snowcover over western ND, with the 
deepest snowpack from around the Interstate and northward. With 
high pressure over the area, expect winds to diminish this evening
and think we could see temperatures drop pretty quick over the 
snowpack. However, to complicate things, some lower stratus and 
fog remains over portions of the snowpack. Thus at this time it 
seems fruitless to try and guess temperatures here. We did go 
ahead and blend the cooler previous guidance with our given NBM 
guidance to lean a bit toward cooler temperatures over the 
snowpack. Expect the evening and overnight shifts will need to 
revisit at least a few times. We also kept a mention of patchy fog
over and around the snowpack. The RAP is indicating fog 
developing in the northwest later this evening, but on occasion is
a little overdone. The HRRR is depicting very little fog here at 
this time. Wednesday looks to bring a mix of sun and clouds with 
slightly warmer temperatures most areas.

.LONG TERM...(Wednesday Night through Tuesday)
Issued at 138 PM CDT Tue Oct 25 2022

Generally a quiet extended period looks to be in store, with a quasi-
zonal flow over the northern tier states through the weekend. Early 
in the period the upper flow splits over the northern and central 
Rockies, with most energy sliding well to our south. However, a bit 
of energy remains in the northern stream and we may see a bit of 
light precipitation brush our southeast CWA Wednesday night into 
Thursday morning. Thereafter, impulses will be coming off the 
Pacific and across the Northern Rockies with little moisture
reaching the Northern Plains. We could see some increasing high 
clouds later in the extended period but after the Wednesday 
night/Thursday system, our NBM PoP forecast is dry through the 
weekend and into early next week. NBM Ensemble spreads later this 
week and through the weekend remain fairly narrow indicating good 
confidence in the given ranges. Normals for late October are in 
the lower 50s for highs and mid to upper 20s for lows. For the 
most part, it looks like we should be around normal to a little
above normal through the extended period for both highs and lows.

&&

.AVIATION...(For the 00Z TAFS through 00Z Wednesday Evening)
Issued at 950 PM CDT Tue Oct 25 2022

MVFR clouds remain across the east, affecting KJMS, these will 
move out by 09z. Lower clouds between 3-10 kft will remain 
through Wednesday morning for the rest of the area. The clouds 
will mostly clear out by early morning with VFR conditions through
the period. Patchy fog is possible in the northwest, affect KXWA,
was not confident enough to put lower visibilities in the TAFs 
yet. Timing could be around 06z. Winds will be light overnight 
then gusting up to 15kts from the south Wednesday afternoon.


&&

.BIS WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
None.
&&

$$

UPDATE...Smith
SHORT TERM...TWH
LONG TERM...TWH
AVIATION...Smith
