428 
FXUS63 KLOT 260739
AFDLOT

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Chicago/Romeoville, IL
239 AM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

.SHORT TERM...
Issued at 230 AM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

Through Thursday...

The deformation zone of the departing low pressure remains 
stretched atop the region early this morning. Low to mid level 
frontogenesis to the northwest of the surface low and wraparound 
precipitable waters around 1.2 inches have made some of the rain 
efficient, with Valparaiso ASOS and other far northwest Indiana 
automated sensors indicating 3-hourly rainfall of 0.50 to 0.80. As
the negatively tilted upper low gets absorbed into the mid- 
latitude westerlies by shortly after sunrise, it will increase 
speed and drag the lingering forcing out of the region. Some 
showers east of I-57 in our forecast area are likely to make it to
8 A.M. or so. The thick clouds will depart shortly thereafter. 
Within the cold advection pattern, scattered, flat cumulus may try
to develop over the area, but still a lot of sun. Wind gusts to 
30 mph will be seen this morning, including a few gusts to 40 mph 
across northern sections of Lake and Porter Counties in Indiana. 
Highs in the lower to mid 50s are on tap which are a few degrees 
below normal.

The upper flow returns to progressive albeit still split tonight
into Thursday. High pressure of 1027 mb will pass directly over
the area overnight. If any thin cirrus is not too thick, it's 
possible there is shallow radiational fog overnight in favorable 
spots. With the high pressure strengthening to our east on 
Thursday, the return flow aspect will be muted thanks to easterly 
low-level winds. Also cirrus may thicken more Thursday afternoon, 
so forecast highs are only a degree or two warmer than today.

MTF

&&

.LONG TERM...
Issued at 240 AM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

Thursday night through Tuesday...

The extended period continues to look rather quiet weather wise as a 
surface high is expected to be in control across the Great Lakes 
region through the end of the week. Under the influence of the high 
light easterly winds are expected to prevail with ample amounts of 
sunshine expected as well. Temperatures through much of the period 
will remain seasonable with highs in the upper 50s and 60s through 
early next week. Low temperatures will also be seasonable, but on 
the chilly side at the start of the period with lows forecast to be 
in the mid 30s to lower 40s Thursday and Friday night, but do look 
to increase into the low to mid-40s heading into early next week. 

The only weather interest of note continues to be the storm system 
that looks to bring some showers to northeastern Illinois and 
northwest Indiana around Halloween. Guidance continues to show that 
the evolution of the system has not changed from what was discussed 
yesterday, however; the arrival time does look to have trended a bit 
later as expected. The majority of the deterministic guidance 
continues to favor an arrival late in the day on Sunday into the day 
on Monday with the ensembles continuing to be a tad earlier. Given 
this trend I did lower the NBM precipitation chances to slight 
chances through the day on Sunday with the higher chances currently 
forecast for Sunday night into Monday. Thankfully guidance has 
continued to be rather progressive with this system as it moves 
through the region which may allow for more dry hours for trick or 
treating on Halloween. Obviously there is still a lot of uncertainty 
at this range to know specifics, but we will continue to monitor the 
forecast trends and make changes as needed. 

Yack

&&

.AVIATION...
For the 06Z TAFs...

Forecast concerns for the terminals...
*Showers linger into early Wednesday morning

*Gradually improving ceilings through the night

*Gusty northwest winds 

Widespread showers continue to be observed across the area this
evening with an area of heavier rain moving through northwest 
Indiana. These showers are expected to linger through the rest of
the night as a surface low continues to move northeastward towards
southern Michigan with showers gradually coming to an end early 
Wednesday morning for the terminals. Ceilings will follow a 
similar trend this evening with IFR and low-end MVFR conditions 
prevailing through the night. As the showers come to an end 
ceilings will quickly increase and scatter out Wednesday morning 
with all sites expected to be VFR by Wednesday afternoon. 

Winds have settled into a northwesterly direction where they will
remain for the duration of the TAF period. Speeds will continue to
increase overnight as strong cold advection on the north side of
the low allows the atmosphere to mix into 20 to 30 kt winds aloft.
The strongest gusts are expected to develop during the predawn
hours Wednesday morning and then gradually ease through the day.
Gusts will ease completely once the atmosphere decouples 
Wednesday evening with light speeds to close out the forecast 
period. 

Yack

&&

.MARINE...
Issued at 230 AM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

A strong low pressure system over far southern Lower Michigan this
morning will provide a continued surge of north-northwest winds
through mid-morning, which will then slowly ease the rest of the 
day. Gales of 35 kt will continue across the southern half of the
lake with a few to 40 kt possible along the Indiana shore. 
Forecast waves over 10 ft this morning along the Indiana shore 
are on track based on early morning observational trends (8 ft at 
Wilmette as of 2 A.M., for instance).

MTF

&&

.LOT WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
IL...None.
IN...None.
LM...Gale Warning...nearshore waters until 11 AM Wednesday.

&&

$$

Visit us at weather.gov/chicago

Follow us on Facebook, Twitter, and YouTube at:
www.facebook.com/NWSChicago
www.twitter.com/NWSChicago
www.youtube.com/NWSChicago
