992 
FXUS63 KLOT 260546
AFDLOT

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Chicago/Romeoville, IL
1246 AM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

.SHORT TERM...
Issued at 243 PM CDT Tue Oct 25 2022

Through Wednesday...

The first appreciable widespread rainfall in several weeks will 
continue into tonight, with multiple additional waves of showers 
expected. Rainfall amounts through 2pm have ranged from around 
0.25" across the northern CWA to locally around 0.75" in the 
southeast CWA. Overall coverage of higher rainfall rates has been 
limited so far as broader scale ascent has been confined to the 
entrance of a departing upper jet streak to the north and slightly
diffluent flow aloft in advance of a compact mid-level wave 
currently entering southeast Missouri. Meanwhile, a cold front 
that has made decent southeast progress early this morning stalled
roughly along a line from Waukegan to Aurora to Ottawa from the 
low-level mass response ahead of the wave and associated surface 
low south of St. Louis. The upper wave is expected to achieve 
maximum strength while entering southern Illinois this evening 
before it gradually weakens with ENE extent through the Ohio River
Valley tonight and Wednesday. the associated surface low will 
track NE along the cold front and cross the southeast CWA late 
this evening into the early overnight.

Overall, no substantial changes were made to the precip forecast 
trends. An extensive rain shield currently over the forecast area 
will lift northward through early evening. Precip rates around 
0.25" an hour to locally 0.5" an hour have been observed upstream 
and are expected to persist across a vast majority of the CWA. 
Given antecedent dry conditions, low streamflows, and relatively 
low precip rates, flood concerns will be limited to brief 
localized ponding and poor drainage due to leaf-clogged storm 
gutters and drains. Isolated embedded storms also remain possible 
generally southeast of I-55 where increasing deep forcing and 
marginal lapse rates straddle a fine line between convective and 
slantwise instability.

A developing TROWAL under the deformation axis of the upper wave 
will likely settle SW to NE across the CWA this evening into the 
overnight hours, with overall obs trends and consensus guidance 
still favoring roughly somewhere along/northwest of and parallel 
to the I-55 corridor. Warm rain processes may become more 
prevalent as some mid-level drying begins and isentropic ascent 
enhances low- level forcing. Concerns remain that a narrow axis or
pocket of moderate to heavy rainfall will occur in this corridor 
late this evening and into the overnight hours as the low pivots 
through the area, producing locally 2"+ storm total rainfall 
values. Isolated lightning is also possible in this area. The 
deformation axis should quickly exit eastward late tonight through
daybreak Wednesday, with most areas likely precip-free around 
sunrise. While some stratus may linger in the morning, skies will 
clear quickly from west to east by the afternoon as CAA keeps 
temps in the mid 50s.

Kluber

&&

.LONG TERM...
Issued at 209 PM CDT Tue Oct 25 2022

Wednesday Night through Tuesday...

Only forecast concern is a chance of rain Sunday/Monday.

High pressure will build into the region Wednesday night and 
slowly shift east as it strengthens leaving a weaker ridge of high
pressure across the southern Great Lakes region through Saturday.
The net result will be dry weather, light easterly winds and 
seasonal temps.

By Sunday, the models bring a weak area of low pressure north
across the Ohio Valley and southern Great Lakes region with
chances for rain returning. There are still some timing
differences for this system, especially when precip ends on
Monday. Pattern then looks to shift southerly and warmer going
into the middle of next week. cms

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
Issued at 250 PM CDT Tue Oct 25 2022

A heavier rainfall event (2+ inches) will continue over a sizable
portion of northern Illinois and possibly part of northwest 
Indiana through tonight. The antecedent dry conditions and low 
streamflows should limit river rises, with possibly a couple
points reaching minor flooding stage. Rainfall efficiency will be
high for late October, especially through this evening. This is 
when some areal Flood Advisory type conditions might manifest 
themselves. Flash flooding seems unlikely at this point, again due
to dry ground conditions and hourly rainfall rates expected to 
stay well below 1 inch per hour.

MTF/Kluber

&&

.AVIATION...
For the 06Z TAFs...

Forecast concerns for the terminals...
*Showers linger into early Wednesday morning

*Gradually improving ceilings through the night

*Gusty northwest winds 

Widespread showers continue to be observed across the area this
evening with an area of heavier rain moving through northwest 
Indiana. These showers are expected to linger through the rest of
the night as a surface low continues to move northeastward towards
southern Michigan with showers gradually coming to an end early 
Wednesday morning for the terminals. Ceilings will follow a 
similar trend this evening with IFR and low-end MVFR conditions 
prevailing through the night. As the showers come to an end 
ceilings will quickly increase and scatter out Wednesday morning 
with all sites expected to be VFR by Wednesday afternoon. 

Winds have settled into a northwesterly direction where they will
remain for the duration of the TAF period. Speeds will continue to
increase overnight as strong cold advection on the north side of
the low allows the atmosphere to mix into 20 to 30 kt winds aloft.
The strongest gusts are expected to develop during the predawn
hours Wednesday morning and then gradually ease through the day.
Gusts will ease completely once the atmosphere decouples 
Wednesday evening with light speeds to close out the forecast 
period. 

Yack

&&

.MARINE...
Issued at 243 PM CDT Tue Oct 25 2022

A strong low pressure system will pass just south of Lake Michigan
late this evening and early overnight. North winds will gradually
increase this evening, with a surge of stronger winds expected
overnight into Wednesday morning. A period of gales to 35 knots is
expected from the Chicago shoreline into northwest Indiana during
this time. Winds will then diminish to under 20 knots by Wednesday
evening.

Kluber

&&

.LOT WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
IL...None.
IN...None.
LM...Small Craft Advisory...nearshore waters until 4 AM Wednesday.

     Gale Warning...LMZ740-LMZ741-LMZ742-LMZ743-LMZ744-LMZ745...4 AM 
     Wednesday to 11 AM Wednesday.

&&

$$

Visit us at weather.gov/chicago

Follow us on Facebook, Twitter, and YouTube at:
www.facebook.com/NWSChicago
www.twitter.com/NWSChicago
www.youtube.com/NWSChicago
