384 
FXUS63 KLOT 261919
AFDLOT

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Chicago/Romeoville, IL
219 PM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

.SHORT TERM...
Issued at 220 PM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

Through Thursday night...

The forest in the short term remains relatively quiet thanks to a 
large area of surface high pressure that will drive most of our 
weather for the next couple of days. A tight pressure gradient ahead 
of the high pressure center has resulted in some breezy conditions 
this afternoon. This will only last into this evening before the 
pressure gradient weakens and we stop mixing into the enhanced flow 
aloft for the night. Mostly clear conditions will hold on through 
the night causing temperatures to cool to near or just above 
freezing for most by early Thursday morning with the help of some 
very light winds overnight. The clear skies and light winds are also 
expected to result in some areas of fog overnight. Guidance insists 
that the fog shouldn't be widespread, yet models are having a hard 
time agreeing on where to place the most favorable areas for fog to 
develop. However, the RAP has liked the Illinois River valley all 
day long and the HRRR is trending toward the same idea.

Heading into Thursday, we should begin the day with lots of blue 
sky. However, after the center of high pressure moves to our east 
Thursday morning, the return flow will introduce some mostly cloudy 
conditions for the latter half of the day. Despite the clouds, no 
rain is expected through the day on Thursday. Temperatures will be 
similar to today with highs in the mid-50's. The added cloud cover 
is one factor that will keep temperatures a bit warmer Thursday 
night than tonight. Lows early Friday are forecast in the middle and 
upper 30's.

Doom

&&

.LONG TERM...
Issued at 220 PM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

Friday through Wednesday...

There are no noteworthy weather impact concerns through mid next
week. A rather tranquil pattern is in store, with seasonably mild
daytime temperatures. Friday and Saturday will be quiet under the
influence of surface high pressure centered over the eastern
Great Lakes and Northeast. Forecast highs are in the upper 50s-low
60s Friday, followed by seasonably chilly mid-upper 30s lows
Friday night outside of Chicago (40-45 in/near the city). Modest
warm advection aloft amidst rising heights will support highs
reaching pleasant low-mid 60s on Saturday (except slightly cooler
IL shore) for a nice start to Halloween weekend.

The main feature of interest for sensible weather effects is a 
mid-upper short-wave tracking from the northern Rockies to New
Mexico by later Thursday. This short-wave will become a closed 
low cut off from the primary upper jet displaced well to the
north, resulting in it meandering eastward across Texas Friday 
into Saturday. It will then become an open wave as it lifts north
from the lower and mid MS Valley to the Great Lakes Sunday into
Monday. The weakening nature of large scale forcing should tend to
result in a more disjointed precip shield with northward extent,
and relatively higher shower coverage Sunday PM for the southeast
half or so of the CWA, where chance PoPs appear reasonable.
Mostly cloudy skies will keep temps a bit cooler, in the upper
50s-lower 60s. 

Another weaker short-wave lifting northeastward across the region
may keep the spotty shower threat into Monday/Halloween for the
southeast half or third of the CWA, mainly in the morning. With
the exception of slower guidance, current signs point toward
favorable trick or treating conditions for most of it not the
entire area, with highs in the upper 50s-lower 60s and temps by
7PM in the lower-mid 50s. In the wake of the weak systems Sunday-
Monday, prevailing south-southwesterly flow and warm advection
will yield highs in the mid-upper 60s Tuesday-Wednesday along with
above normal overnight lows. Some precip chances may return just
beyond day 7 from troughiness in the west. 

Castro

&&

.AVIATION...
For the 18Z TAFs...

The primary aviation weather concerns through the 18Z TAF period are 
as follows:

- At GYY, periods of MVFR cigs this afternoon and evening

- NW winds shifting to NE early Thursday morning

A deck of ~2kft cigs is beginning to cross into IL over Lake County 
and is headed south. It appears that it should stay just far east 
enough of the Chicago terminals to prevent MVFR conditions at MDW 
and ORD, although a brief period or two of MVFR this afternoon isn't 
out of the question. MVFR looks likely over GYY this afternoon and 
evening as a result of this approaching deck. Otherwise, gusty NW 
winds will take us into this evening before subsiding to under 10 
kts shortly after 00Z. Early Thursday morning, NW winds are expected 
to shift to NE and then onto easterly by the early afternoon. This 
wind shift will occur much earlier at RFD, closer to 07Z tonight. 
Easterly winds under 10 kts will then take us through the remainder 
of the period.

Doom

&&

.LOT WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
IL...None.
IN...None.
LM...Small Craft Advisory...IL nearshore waters until 4 PM Wednesday.

     Small Craft Advisory...IN nearshore waters until 7 PM Wednesday.

&&

$$

Visit us at weather.gov/chicago

Follow us on Facebook, Twitter, and YouTube at:
www.facebook.com/NWSChicago
www.twitter.com/NWSChicago
www.youtube.com/NWSChicago
