030 
FXUS63 KLOT 261124
AFDLOT

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Chicago/Romeoville, IL
624 AM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

.SHORT TERM...
Issued at 230 AM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

Through Thursday...

The deformation zone of the departing low pressure remains 
stretched atop the region early this morning. Low to mid level 
frontogenesis to the northwest of the surface low and wraparound 
precipitable waters around 1.2 inches have made some of the rain 
efficient, with Valparaiso ASOS and other far northwest Indiana 
automated sensors indicating 3-hourly rainfall of 0.50 to 0.80. As
the negatively tilted upper low gets absorbed into the mid- 
latitude westerlies by shortly after sunrise, it will increase 
speed and drag the lingering forcing out of the region. Some 
showers east of I-57 in our forecast area are likely to make it to
8 A.M. or so. The thick clouds will depart shortly thereafter. 
Within the cold advection pattern, scattered, flat cumulus may try
to develop over the area, but still a lot of sun. Wind gusts to 
30 mph will be seen this morning, including a few gusts to 40 mph 
across northern sections of Lake and Porter Counties in Indiana. 
Highs in the lower to mid 50s are on tap which are a few degrees 
below normal.

The upper flow returns to progressive albeit still split tonight
into Thursday. High pressure of 1027 mb will pass directly over
the area overnight. If any thin cirrus is not too thick, it's 
possible there is shallow radiational fog overnight in favorable 
spots. With the high pressure strengthening to our east on 
Thursday, the return flow aspect will be muted thanks to easterly 
low-level winds. Also cirrus may thicken more Thursday afternoon, 
so forecast highs are only a degree or two warmer than today.

MTF

&&

.LONG TERM...
Issued at 240 AM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

Thursday night through Tuesday...

The extended period continues to look rather quiet weather wise as a 
surface high is expected to be in control across the Great Lakes 
region through the end of the week. Under the influence of the high 
light easterly winds are expected to prevail with ample amounts of 
sunshine expected as well. Temperatures through much of the period 
will remain seasonable with highs in the upper 50s and 60s through 
early next week. Low temperatures will also be seasonable, but on 
the chilly side at the start of the period with lows forecast to be 
in the mid 30s to lower 40s Thursday and Friday night, but do look 
to increase into the low to mid-40s heading into early next week. 

The only weather interest of note continues to be the storm system 
that looks to bring some showers to northeastern Illinois and 
northwest Indiana around Halloween. Guidance continues to show that 
the evolution of the system has not changed from what was discussed 
yesterday, however; the arrival time does look to have trended a bit 
later as expected. The majority of the deterministic guidance 
continues to favor an arrival late in the day on Sunday into the day 
on Monday with the ensembles continuing to be a tad earlier. Given 
this trend I did lower the NBM precipitation chances to slight 
chances through the day on Sunday with the higher chances currently 
forecast for Sunday night into Monday. Thankfully guidance has 
continued to be rather progressive with this system as it moves 
through the region which may allow for more dry hours for trick or 
treating on Halloween. Obviously there is still a lot of uncertainty 
at this range to know specifics, but we will continue to monitor the 
forecast trends and make changes as needed. 

Yack

&&

.AVIATION...
For the 12Z TAFs...

Forecast concerns for the terminals...
*Ceilings continuing to scatter out this morning

*Breezy northwest winds through this afternoon

*Patchy fog possible tonight

Showers continue to come to an end this morning with most of the
TAF sites already reporting dry conditions. Ceilings have also
been rapidly improving this morning with many sites reporting VFR
conditions and most others reporting MVFR. Ceilings will continue
to scatter out by late morning with some VFR cumulus clouds 
expected to develop this afternoon and persist through sunset. 

Breezy northwest winds have continued to be observed at the
terminals with gusts around 25 kts. These conditions are expected
to continue through this afternoon as the cold advection allows
the atmosphere to tap into 20 to 25 kt winds aloft. Gusts will
ease this evening with light speeds around 5 kts persisting
through the rest of the forecast period. However, wind directions
will become easterly Thursday morning as a surface high settles
into the region. 

Lastly, there is also the potential for some patchy fog to develop
late tonight from the residual low-level moisture in place from
yesterday's showers. While conditions for fog look favorable given
the light winds and moisture, there is some uncertainty as to how
well we will be able to radiationally cool tonight as mid-level 
clouds are expected to move overhead. Guidance is indicating that 
these clouds should be thin, but placement of fog continues to 
vary between models. Given this uncertainty I have foregone a 
formal mention in the TAFs at this time. 

Yack

&&

.MARINE...
Issued at 230 AM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

A strong low pressure system over far southern Lower Michigan this
morning will provide a continued surge of north-northwest winds
through mid-morning, which will then slowly ease the rest of the 
day. Gales of 35 kt will continue across the southern half of the
lake with a few to 40 kt possible along the Indiana shore. 
Forecast waves over 10 ft this morning along the Indiana shore 
are on track based on early morning observational trends (8 ft at 
Wilmette as of 2 A.M., for instance).

MTF

&&

.LOT WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
IL...None.
IN...None.
LM...Gale Warning...nearshore waters until 11 AM Wednesday.

&&

$$

Visit us at weather.gov/chicago

Follow us on Facebook, Twitter, and YouTube at:
www.facebook.com/NWSChicago
www.twitter.com/NWSChicago
www.youtube.com/NWSChicago
