092 
FXUS63 KIND 261740
AFDIND

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Indianapolis IN
140 PM EDT Wed Oct 26 2022

...Updated Aviation Discussion...

.Forecast Update...
Issued at 959 AM EDT Wed Oct 26 2022

Current radar imagery shows a few light showers across far NE 
counties associated with the surface low that brought much needed 
rain to central Indiana. Expect these showers to move out over the 
next hour or two as the low departs. Clouds will begin to clear some 
this afternoon from west to east as drier air filters in aloft. 
While some clearing may occur, forecast soundings show a subsidence 
inversion developing near 850mb-900mb through the day which could 
trap low level clouds. Due to this, Partly to mostly cloudy skies 
are expected for most of the area today. Western portions of the CWA 
will see less cloud cover with the potential for mostly clear 
skies at times this afternoon. 

Max temperatures were slightly decreased this afternoon due to the
lingering cloud cover, mainly across eastern portions of central 
Indiana. Look for highs in the mid 50s for most locations and near
60 across the lower Wabash Valley. Breezy conditions are expected
today with gusts up to 35mph possible over northeastern counties.

&&

.Short Term...(Today and tonight)
Issued at 254 AM EDT Wed Oct 26 2022

Highlights: 

* Lingering light showers this morning, with increasing sun (west
  to east) this afternoon. 

* Patchy fog possible over the next two mornings

Wednesday...

The upper level low of the system that lead to widespread rain and 
windy conditions yesterday will pass through central Indiana this 
morning. A subgeostrophic minimum in the base of the trough along 
with steep negative tilt will create a CVA maximum over the northern 
Ohio Valley. In return, this will progress the upper level low to 
the NE, through northern Indiana and Michigan. Beneath the low, 
elevated moisture and strong cyclonic flow will lead to widespread 
clouds and scattered weak showers. Highest coverage will be over 
northern portions of central Indiana, where cloud bases are lower, 
corresponding to higher near surface moisture. An additional 0.05"-
0.10" will be possible in far NE central Indiana. Early this 
morning, 500-1000 foot cloud decks, with high near surface
moisture from prior rainfall could lead to patchy fog, with 
visibilities between 1-3 SM. 

Eventually, cool, dry air from the west will push into the region, 
drying the low to mid levels and mixing out cloud cover. 
Temperatures this afternoon will be directly related to the 
timing of clearing, with western portions of the state slightly 
warmer due to more prolonged SW radiation. Current expectation are
for highs in the mid to upper 50s, with a few far SW locations 
reaching/exceeding 60. 

The same, seasonal airmass will remain over central Indiana 
tonight. Some model members are picking up on a mid level moisture
lobe wrapping around the upper level low as its over 
Michigan/Quebec overnight. This could lead to patchy cloud cover 
with bases around 5000 feet. Cloud coverage will be highest over 
NE central Indiana; closer proximity to the low. These clouds will
actually help combat the temperature gradient over central 
Indiana, limiting temperature decreases over the cooler NE portion
of the area. All in all, most areas will bottom out around 35-37 
degrees. High surface moisture in the presence of mid 30 degree 
temps could lead to some patchy frost on elevated surfaces, but 
the ground should avoid any deposition.

&&

.Long Term...(Thursday through Tuesday)
Issued at 254 AM EDT Wed Oct 26 2022

- Dry Thursday through Saturday.

- More showers Saturday night through Monday.

- Near to slightly above normal temperatures by Friday after a cool 
  start on Thursday.

The long term will start off with surface high pressure over the 
Great Lakes, southwest flow aloft over the Ohio Valley and an upper 
low in the vicinity of Colorado/Utah/Wyoming. The surface high will 
gradually move into New England this weekend as the upper low 
initially intensifies and moves across northern Texas and to near 
Jonesboro, Arkansas, by 12z Sunday. This will spin up a Gulf surface 
system that will eventually weaken as it lifts northeast across the 
Ohio Valley and Great Lakes, very late this weekend or early next 
week. The upper low will likewise open up over the Mississippi 
Valley, late in the weekend and early next week before it gets 
absorbed into the northern stream. Meanwhile, yet another wave, this 
time within the broader central states trough, will lift northeast 
across the vicinity sometime in the early or middle part of next 
week. 

Synoptic lift will weaken with the southern system as it gets closer 
to the Ohio Valley. So, not expecting a significant rain event. 
However, PWATs to 1.2 inches could still see some locales realizing 
a quarter inch or more QPF before all is said and done. The 00z GFS 
and 00z ECMWF are close in timing with these features with the best 
chances and coverage from Sunday to Monday. 

Moisture will be lacking and along with only weak synoptic lift 
from the trailing wave, will keep it dry after Monday. 

With surface high pressure over the Great Lakes Thursday and mid and 
high clouds moving in the southwest flow aloft ahead of the upper 
low, temperatures will be below normal with highs only in the 50s 
over most locales. Meanwhile, cloud cover and decent surface 
pressure gradient should prevent decoupling, however, northeast 
winds will still make upper 30s likely for overnight lows most 
spots. Should see some more sunshine on Friday and Saturday as the 
column dries up substantially and winds eventually back to southeast 
in the wake of the departed high pressure. This should allow 
temperatures to return to seasonable and above with highs in the 
60s. Eventually, winds become southwest around high pressure from 
the Gulf to the Ohio Valley next week. That and some sunshine 
support slightly above normal temperatures.

&&

.Aviation...(18Z TAF Issuance)
Issued at 140 PM EDT Wed Oct 26 2022

Impacts:
-IFR to MVFR ceilings at most sites through late afternoon
-Wind gusts up to 20-25 kts, diminishing around dusk
-VFR conditions beginning early evening

Discussion: 

IFR and MVFR ceilings remain across most TAF sites this afternoon as 
low level clouds have gradually cleared from west to east. Dry air 
is filtering in from the west with VFR conditions already being 
reported at KHUF. Gradual improvement will continue at the other TAF 
sites, with VFR cigs expected at most locations by the early evening 
hours. Gusts up to 20-25kts will be possible through the afternoon, 
but should diminish around dusk. 

Winds will shift from NW to NE through the night. This may keep low 
level clouds around overnight with the potential for MVFR 
conditions. Confidence is lower than usual for cloud cover thus kept 
low end VFR conditions for most sites at this time. If skies clear 
out, light winds and damp grounds could lead to patchy fog 
overnight. At this time confidence is low as high uncertainty 
remains with cloud cover.

&&

.IND WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
None.
&&

$$

Update...Melo
Short Term...Updike
Long Term...MK
Aviation...Melo
