137 
FXUS63 KIND 261900
AFDIND

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Indianapolis IN
300 PM EDT Wed Oct 26 2022

.Short Term...(This evening through Thursday)
Issued at 258 PM EDT Wed Oct 26 2022

Highlights: 

* Gradually clearing skies over the next few hours 

* Patchy fog possible tonight; Lows in the mid 30s

Today...

The surface low that provided needed rain over the past 24 hours has 
exited the region. Current satellite imagery shows the western half 
of central IN has cleared out with partly cloudy skies over most of 
the area. This is due to dry air filtering in from the northwest 
which is helping to mix out cloud cover. However, extensive cloud 
cover remains across the eastern half as NW winds continue to advect 
lake enhanced clouds into the area. This has limited daytime heating 
with current temperatures in the upper 40s to low 50s. Look for 
gradual improvement in cloud cover through the evening as dry air 
advection continues.

Tonight...

A surface high will build in tonight and Thursday with quiet weather 
expected. As the surface high moves across Michigan overnight, 
surface winds will shift from northwest to northeast. This will help 
advect low level clouds over western Ohio back into the area 
overnight. Western and southern counties should see the least cloud 
cover overnight with the potnetial for mostly clear skies at times. 
Relatively light winds, damp grounds, and the potential for clear 
skies in spots could lead to patchy fog in a few spots. Most areas 
will bottom out around 34-37 degrees. High surface moisture in the 
presence of mid 30 degree temps could lead to some patchy frost on 
elevated surfaces, but the ground should avoid any deposition.

Thursday and Thursday night...

Surface high pressure continues to dominate the region with quiet 
weather expected. Aloft, southwesterly flow ahead of a deepening 
trough over the southern plains will help to increase cloud cover in 
central IN late Thursday. No precipitation is expected, but cloud 
cover could limit overnight temperatures. Look for highs in the mid 
to upper 50s on Thursday. A relaxing pressure gradient should result 
in lighter winds compared to the previous week. Expect 10-15mph 
winds out of the E/NE.

&&

.Long Term...(Thursday night through Wednesday)
Issued at 258 PM EDT Wed Oct 26 2022

- Thursday - Saturday:  dry, seasonable/slight moderation
- Saturday night - Monday:  chances of showers return
- Tuesday - Wednesday:  fair, mild

The long term will trend from a dry late-week...to rain chances 
Sunday-Monday...before drier conditions likely return into the 
middle of next week.  Some uncertainty surrounds timing and scale of 
the rain opportunities given the main jet pulled well north into 
southern Canada...with the remaining weaker flow across the central 
CONUS attempting to steer the early week's waves out of central 
Indiana by Monday night.

Friday-Saturday...broad, strong surface high pressure centered over 
New England will be ridged back towards the Quad Cities area... 
while another stacked, cut-off trough slowly swings across Texas and 
Arkansas.  A dry column sporting precipitable water values under 
0.60 inches, and modest easterly breezes should keep Indiana dry 
through Saturday.

Saturday night-Monday will encapsulate several periods with 
potential rain, with more southeasterly flow boosting precipitable 
water to near/above 1.00 inches.  Although with guidance agreeing 
better over the latest couple runs, there is moderate confidence 
most locations would only see more-organized precipitation within a 
24-hr period around the Sunday-Sunday night timeframe.  The main 
actor here will be the southern circulation, lifting/filling and 
weakening as it advances from Arkansas into Indiana...similar to 
yesterday's rainmaker.  Additional rainfall is possible as a weak 
mid-level wave ejects from the Four Corners area and across the 
Middle Mississippi Valley into Monday, helping to wring-out some of 
the moist flow brought in by the southern trough...although lower 
confidence here with timing and therefore spatial coverage of any 
further substantiative rainfall.  Conditions should improve going 
into Tuesday, yet lower certainty in timing of clearing...as modest 
troughiness swinging in from the central Plains could hold the damp 
pattern across the region through the early Tuesday timeframe.

Tuesday-Wednesday should feature fair weather, and without any surge 
of Canadian chill as stacked high pressure slides from the Deep 
South across the Ohio Valley in wake of the departing troughs.  The 
bigger story through the mid-week will strengthening southwesterly 
flow entering Indiana as a broad, strong trough is expected to 
plunge across the western CONUS.

Temperatures will be consistently near to slightly above normal 
through the long term with afternoon highs expected in the 60s 
across the region.  Ample cloud cover early next week...and then 
southwesterly breezes towards the end of the period will promote 
somewhat mild overnights in the 40s to around 50F.

&&

.Aviation...(18Z TAF Issuance)
Issued at 140 PM EDT Wed Oct 26 2022

Impacts:
-IFR to MVFR ceilings at most sites through late afternoon
-Wind gusts up to 20-25 kts, diminishing around dusk
-VFR conditions beginning early evening

Discussion: 

IFR and MVFR ceilings remain across most TAF sites this afternoon as 
low level clouds have gradually cleared from west to east. Dry air 
is filtering in from the west with VFR conditions already being 
reported at KHUF. Gradual improvement will continue at the other TAF 
sites, with VFR cigs expected at most locations by the early evening 
hours. Gusts up to 20-25kts will be possible through the afternoon, 
but should diminish around dusk. 

Winds will shift from NW to NE through the night. This may keep low 
level clouds around overnight with the potential for MVFR 
conditions. Confidence is lower than usual for cloud cover thus kept 
low end VFR conditions for most sites at this time. If skies clear 
out, light winds and damp grounds could lead to patchy fog 
overnight. At this time confidence is low as high uncertainty 
remains with cloud cover.

&&

.IND WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...None.
&&

$$

Short Term...Melo
Long Term...AGM
Aviation...Melo
