270 
FXUS63 KIND 260518
AFDIND

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Indianapolis IN
118 AM EDT Wed Oct 26 2022

...Updated Aviation Discussion...

.Forecast Update...
Issued at 920 PM EDT Tue Oct 25 2022

Latest radar imagery shows the broad area that brought 0.5-1.5 
inches of rain to the area continues to slowly move to the northeast 
and weaken as it moves into a drier and less favorable environment. 
Behind this a more convective and skinny line has formed.  Models 
have generally had a good handle on this second area of rain which 
will slowly pivot to the north through the rest of the evening 
hours.  Will have to keep an eye on the potential for a few rumbles 
of thunder or brief gust of wind with this line, but not expecting 
anything more than a brief 45 mph wind gust with this.

Light rain will continue at times through the overnight hours, but 
expect coverage to be fairly minimal outside of the northwestern 
counties which will be closer to the surface low and where the 
showers will be moving much slower compared to areas closer to 
Indianapolis.  Rain amounts of around a tenth of an inch will fall 
across the western counties by daybreak with heavier amounts to the 
east where the rain has been less plentiful so far.

Overnight lows in the upper 40s to near 50 still look reasonable 
with no major changes needed to the forecast other than fine-tuning 
the POPs over the next few hours.

&&

.Short Term...(This evening through Wednesday)
Issued at 312 PM EDT Tue Oct 25 2022

*POSSIBLE WIND GUSTS UP TO 45 MPH IN SHOWERS/T-STORMS NEAR/SOUTH OF 
 TERRE HAUTE...BLOOMINGTON

*OTHERWISE BREEZY IN NUMEROUS SHOWERS/FEW T-STORMS INTO THIS EVENING

A unseasonably warm but rather dry column has moistened today amid 
southerly advection and virga...with scattered, mainly light showers 
slowly expanding east through the region. Mid-afternoon temperatures 
were generally in the 60s, with low 70s found across northeastern 
zones where better sun and lack of evaporative cooling from 
virga/showers was had been the rule.  Greatest MRMS rainfall 
estimates across the region through 200 PM were 0.25-0.50 inches in 
the far northwestern corner of the region, although around 0.10 
inches had fallen along most of the Wabash Valley.

Rest of today and tonight...

Numerous to a couple hours of potentially widespread rain showers 
will cross central Indiana generally from south to north...while 
losing intensity as the supporting system enters the region, pushing 
the better forcing towards the southern Great Lakes towards daybreak.

The once-potent mini cut-off wave will slowly fill as it lifts 
northeastward towards the main flow crossing Ontario.  The moist 
ribbon's precipitable water maximum of 1.25-1.50 inches, streaming 
northward across the width of Indiana early this evening will 
diminish by nearly half by 12z.  Nevertheless ample forcing for 
several more hours will promote hopefully 0.25-0.75 inches of 
rainfall for most locations overnight.  There is some concern in 
overdone QPF given antecedent dryness...yet moderate confidence 
continues that much of the region collects a 24-hour rainfall total 
that is near/above their month-to-date sum, as modest as these 
values may be.  These light to hopefully moderate precipitation 
totals through dawn Wednesday are expected to be more generous over 
central/western counties where better forcing and timing with 
daytime heating should combine through late today.

A broken and somewhat disorganized line of showers should cross the 
region within 20z-03z.  This should contain the heaviest rainfall 
rates and at least isolated embedded thunder.  Severe winds are not 
expected despite moderate vertical wind shear given near-zero 
instability.  Nevertheless strong wind gusts up to 45 mph are 
possible within this feature, especially south and west of 
Indianapolis where some brief, modest instability may be found as it 
pushes through.  Temperatures tonight will hold around 60F before 
dropping into the upper 40s to near 50F towards daybreak.

Wednesday...

Will be a day of transition as the small wave exits the region. 
Additional light rainfall is possible from Indianapolis to points 
north and east before tapering off in the morning, although 
scattered showers may linger through midday around Kokomo and Muncie 
under the system's trailing surface trough and last bit of mid-level 
forcing.  Then, building in from the central Plains will be surface 
high pressure...more modest than the Canadian blasts that frequently 
kept the region quite chilly and/or breezy throughout earlier 
portions of the month...courtesy of its Pacific maritime origins. 
Clouds are expected to decrease from west to east during the 
afternoon, with forecast soundings showing any inversion aloft that 
would trap excessive stratus departing by sundown.  At least partial 
clearing will be indicative of very dry mid-levels returning as the 
column's precipitable water values drop once again under 0.50 inches 
by 00z Wednesday evening.

Robust breezes throughout the day will veer from west-southwesterly 
early Wednesday morning to northwesterly by late day as the 
circulation around the stacked trough lifts towards southeastern 
Ontario.  Gusts as high as 20-25 mph are expected, especially across 
northern zones which will be amid the better gradient near the small 
system's surface reflection as it tracks towards Fort Wayne.
Temperatures are expected to rebound slowly and only through the 
50s, per the eventually-diminishing clouds accompanied by cold 
advective breezes.  Should skies manage to clear a few hours 
earlier, a more seasonable day into the low 60s may be possible, 
especially across southwestern counties.

&&

.Long Term...(Wednesday night through Tuesday)
Issued at 312 PM EDT Tue Oct 25 2022

* Dry Wednesday night through at least Saturday.

* Showers possible Saturday night into Monday.

* Seasonably mild temperatures much of the period.

Broadly cyclonic flow across the CONUS is expected for much of the 
long term period. Another closed low is expected to break off as the 
upper level energy drops into the Four Corners region Thursday. 
Ahead of this next system, broad west/southwesterly flow aloft and 
high pressure at the surface over the Great Lakes will keep the area 
dry and seasonably mild with a slight warming trend through the 
early part of the weekend.

This next closed low will slowly make progress across the southern 
CONUS during the week, beginning to weaken and lift northeast back 
into the northern stream during the latter half of the weekend into 
early next week. Scattered light showers will be possible as this 
occurs, although given timing and placement uncertainties cannot 
justify more than chance pops this far out - primarily Saturday 
night into Monday, although if guidance continues to slow the system 
this timing will obviously be impacted. Convective indices and mean 
model placement of the low itself suggest thunder will not be a 
significant threat with this round. Precipitation amounts look to be 
fairly light with this system, which means limited if any impact to 
longer term precipitation deficits across the area.

Temperatures will begin the period slightly below normal in the wake 
of the closed low moving through today into tomorrow, before quickly 
recovering to near or slightly above normal through the remainder of 
the period under broad southwesterly flow aloft. Blend initialized 
these well and required only minor adjustments.

&&

.Aviation...(06Z TAF Issuance)
Issued at 114 AM EDT Wed Oct 26 2022

Impacts:
-MVFR to IFR cigs beginning 07-08Z through 13Z tomorrow.
-Wind shift from 250 to 340 tonight into tomorrow.
-Isolated wind gusts to 20 kts at KLAF this afternoon

Discussion: 

Winds have begun to shift from the SW to W at IND and will shortly 
do so at the other terminals as the heavier rain that brought MVFR to 
IFR vsbys to the area begins to wrap up.  Brief and light rain is 
possible through the night, but coverage and frequency will be too 
low for a specific mention in the TAF.  Cigs will fall to IFR over 
the course of the night with gradual improvement into the daytime 
hours tomorrow.  Winds will then become more northwesterly with 
occasional gusts to 20kts during the afternoon.

&&

.IND WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
None.
&&

$$

Update...White
Short Term...AM
Long Term...Nield
Aviation...Updike
