766 
FXUS61 KCLE 261910
AFDCLE

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Cleveland OH
310 PM EDT Wed Oct 26 2022

.SYNOPSIS...
Low pressure will move from Central Lower Michigan into Canada 
today, pulling a cold front east across the area this afternoon. 
Strong high pressure will build overhead on Thursday and continue to 
influence the region through the weekend as it moves east into New 
England.

&&

.NEAR TERM /THROUGH THURSDAY NIGHT/...
The cold front is making its way east across the region this 
afternoon, bringing periods of gusty west to northwest winds of 25 
to 30 mph. The best rain shower coverage remains confined to 
portions of NE OH and NW PA and that will remain to be the case 
through the remainder of today, though there does appear to be a 
decent area of drizzle immediately following the cold front. 
Precipitation chances will begin to diminish by late this evening 
and overnight as the surface low and associated low-level moisture 
pull away from the region. Lows tonight will be slightly below 
average in the mid to upper 30s. 

For Thursday, surface high pressure will build across the Great 
Lakes, though a pesky low-level inversion may result in general 
cloudiness persisting for much of the morning and perhaps into the 
afternoon, especially for areas east of the I-75 corridor. For this 
reason, went slightly below temperature guidance,resulting in highs 
in the low to mid 50s.  Chilly temperatures will continue for 
Thursday night with lows in the low to mid 30s.

&&

.SHORT TERM /FRIDAY THROUGH SATURDAY NIGHT/...
Closed upper level low ejects northeastward out of the lower 
Mississippi Valley towards the lower Ohio Valley during the duration 
of the short term. This filling/weakening upper level low pressure 
system and surface low will follow retreating high pressure off the 
New England coast into the lower Great Lakes. The influences of high 
pressure will dominate the short term forecast period despite the 
exit of the surface high, leading to a dry forecast. Temperatures 
begin near normal, finish the short term slightly above normal 
Saturday under abundant sun, and cloud up Saturday night with the 
approach of the aforementioned low pressure system. No significant 
weather impacts in the short term.

&&

.LONG TERM /SUNDAY THROUGH WEDNESDAY/...
The Sunday through Monday period will be the next chance for rain 
for the CWA despite the weakening characteristics of the low 
pressure system heading into our area. Will still have some defined 
forcing in the form of low-mid level frontogenesis which will 
probably peak Sunday night. The characteristics of the surface 
system are difficult to decipher. The system will move in as a 
weakening occluded frontal system Sunday that will probably get 
harder to identify into Sunday night. The first open upper wave 
passes around 03Z Monday, but will be followed by a second moving in 
from the west Monday with a the occluded front lingering, oriented 
southwest to northeast along the lower Great Lakes. In the end, the 
result is going to be a relatively high POP event over roughly 24 
hours with low QPF. Monday evening looks damp at this point in time 
with 6hr QPF amounts 18Z Monday-00Z Tuesday only a couple/few 
hundredths or so, highest in NE OH/NW PA during that 6hr period.

&&

.AVIATION /18Z Wednesday THROUGH Monday/...
Mixed-bag of MVFR and IFR conditions across the TAF sites early
this afternoon, associated with both lower ceilings and vsbys.
Vsbys should improve through the rest of the day as rain chances
decrease, although ceilings in the MVFR to perhaps IFR range may
persist through much of the TAF period with the exception of
TOL/FDY where more substantial cloud breaks are possible 
beginning as early as this evening. Fog is certainly a
possibility at some of the southern TAF sites tonight, though 
uncertainty on cloud cover precludes any mention in the TAFs for
this update.

Winds are generally in the 10 to 15 knot range early this
afternoon, out of the south and southwest ahead of the cold
front, shifting towards the west to northwest behind the cold
front. Periodic wind gusts of 20 to 25 knots can be expected
with the front. Winds will weaken to less than 10 knots tonight
into tomorrow, shifting more towards the northwest and north. 

Outlook...Non-VFR possible late Sunday into Monday in rain showers.

&&

.MARINE...
Winds shift this afternoon behind an occluded front to the northwest 
15-25kts with gusts to 30kts, gradually decreasing tonight to 10-
20kts. Small Craft Advisory in effect for the afternoon and tonight 
as wave heights increase accordingly through that period. Winds 
become northeasterly late Friday through Saturday decreasing from 10-
15kts to 5-10kts during that stretch as weakening low pressure 
approaches from the southwest. Winds variable, ultimately coming 
around to the south Monday as weak low pressure passes. By Tuesday, 
winds become southwesterly 5-15kts under the influence of high 
pressure to our south.

&&

.CLE WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
OH...None.
PA...None.
MARINE...Small Craft Advisory until 4 AM EDT Thursday for LEZ142>145.
     Small Craft Advisory until 10 AM EDT Thursday for LEZ146>149.

&&

$$
SYNOPSIS...Kahn
NEAR TERM...Kahn
SHORT TERM...26
LONG TERM...26
AVIATION...Kahn
MARINE...26
