727 
FXUS61 KCLE 262354
AFDCLE

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Cleveland OH
754 PM EDT Wed Oct 26 2022

.SYNOPSIS...
Low pressure will move from Central Lower Michigan into Canada 
today, pulling a cold front east across the area this afternoon. 
Strong high pressure will build overhead on Thursday and continue to 
influence the region through the weekend as it moves east into New 
England.

&&

.NEAR TERM /THROUGH THURSDAY NIGHT/...

Update...

Most of our forecast remains valid. The surface cold front was 
located over far-eastern Lake Erie and in vicinity of far- 
eastern Erie and Crawford Counties in NW PA as of 7:20 PM EDT. 
The eastward-moving front will likely exit the rest of our CWA 
by 8 PM. Scattered rain showers along the front will give way to
primarily fair weather behind the front as high pressure at the
surface and aloft builds from the Upper Midwest. However, lake-
enhanced rain showers will stream generally SE'ward from Lake 
Erie through about midnight tonight as low-level CAA allows 850
mb temperatures to drop from near 3C toward 0C, resulting in 
lake surface to 850 mb temperature differences near 9C to 12C.
These showers will impact our snowbelt counties in NE OH and 
NW PA and vicinity. The lake-enhanced rain showers should end 
from west to east through about midnight tonight as a shortwave 
trough axis at/near 700 mb exits E'ward from our CWA. This will 
cause abundant moisture and a cloud deck in the mid-levels, and
the seeder-feeder process necessary to maintain the lake-enhanced
precip, to exit E'ward. POP's were adjusted through midnight 
tonight to better reflect expected evolution of lake-enhanced 
precip and to have our POP's jibe better with our QPF. May have 
to adjust our current POP's for after midnight tonight with the
late evening update. Will continue to monitor trends.

Previous Discussion...

The cold front is making its way east across the region this 
afternoon, bringing periods of gusty west to northwest winds of 25 
to 30 mph. The best rain shower coverage remains confined to 
portions of NE OH and NW PA and that will remain to be the case 
through the remainder of today, though there does appear to be a 
decent area of drizzle immediately following the cold front. 
Precipitation chances will begin to diminish by late this evening 
and overnight as the surface low and associated low-level moisture 
pull away from the region. Lows tonight will be slightly below 
average in the mid to upper 30s. 

For Thursday, surface high pressure will build across the Great 
Lakes, though a pesky low-level inversion may result in general 
cloudiness persisting for much of the morning and perhaps into the 
afternoon, especially for areas east of the I-75 corridor. For this 
reason, went slightly below temperature guidance,resulting in highs 
in the low to mid 50s.  Chilly temperatures will continue for 
Thursday night with lows in the low to mid 30s.

&&

.SHORT TERM /FRIDAY THROUGH SATURDAY NIGHT/...
Closed upper level low ejects northeastward out of the lower 
Mississippi Valley towards the lower Ohio Valley during the duration 
of the short term. This filling/weakening upper level low pressure 
system and surface low will follow retreating high pressure off the 
New England coast into the lower Great Lakes. The influences of high 
pressure will dominate the short term forecast period despite the 
exit of the surface high, leading to a dry forecast. Temperatures 
begin near normal, finish the short term slightly above normal 
Saturday under abundant sun, and cloud up Saturday night with the 
approach of the aforementioned low pressure system. No significant 
weather impacts in the short term.

&&

.LONG TERM /SUNDAY THROUGH WEDNESDAY/...
The Sunday through Monday period will be the next chance for rain 
for the CWA despite the weakening characteristics of the low 
pressure system heading into our area. Will still have some defined 
forcing in the form of low-mid level frontogenesis which will 
probably peak Sunday night. The characteristics of the surface 
system are difficult to decipher. The system will move in as a 
weakening occluded frontal system Sunday that will probably get 
harder to identify into Sunday night. The first open upper wave 
passes around 03Z Monday, but will be followed by a second moving in 
from the west Monday with a the occluded front lingering, oriented 
southwest to northeast along the lower Great Lakes. In the end, the 
result is going to be a relatively high POP event over roughly 24 
hours with low QPF. Monday evening looks damp at this point in time 
with 6hr QPF amounts 18Z Monday-00Z Tuesday only a couple/few 
hundredths or so, highest in NE OH/NW PA during that 6hr period.

&&

.AVIATION /00Z Thursday THROUGH Monday/...
At 23:20Z/Wed, the eastward-moving surface cold front was 
located over far-eastern Lake Erie and far-eastern parts of 
northwest PA. This front will likely exit the rest of our region
by 00Z/Thurs. Behind the front, a surface ridge builds into our
area as the ridge's core moves from the Upper Midwest toward 
Lake Huron. Southwesterly surface winds around 5 to 15 knots 
veer quickly to westerly and then to northwesterly following 
the front's passage. The northwesterly winds may gust up to
about 20 knots at times through the predawn hours of Thursday 
morning, especially along and just inland from Lake Erie in
northeast OH and northwest PA. Regional surface winds around 5 
to 15 knots will then veer gradually to northerly and then 
toward northeasterly through 00Z/Fri in response to the building
ridge.

Scattered to widespread low-level clouds, primarily in the MVFR
to 4kft AGL range, are expected through the TAF period. The 
most-widespread cloud cover is expected through about midday
Thursday. Scattered rain showers along and ahead of the cold 
front will be followed by mainly fair weather behind the front. 
However, lake-enhanced rain showers are expected over and 
generally southeast of Lake Erie through about 03Z/Thurs. These 
lake-enhanced showers will affect much of northeast OH and 
northwest PA. Occasional MVFR visibility and IFR ceilings may 
accompany showers. 

Outlook...Non-VFR possible with periods of rain showers this
Sunday into Monday.

&&

.MARINE...
Winds shift this afternoon behind an occluded front to the northwest 
15-25kts with gusts to 30kts, gradually decreasing tonight to 10-
20kts. Small Craft Advisory in effect for the afternoon and tonight 
as wave heights increase accordingly through that period. Winds 
become northeasterly late Friday through Saturday decreasing from 10-
15kts to 5-10kts during that stretch as weakening low pressure 
approaches from the southwest. Winds variable, ultimately coming 
around to the south Monday as weak low pressure passes. By Tuesday, 
winds become southwesterly 5-15kts under the influence of high 
pressure to our south.

&&

.CLE WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
OH...None.
PA...None.
MARINE...Small Craft Advisory until 4 AM EDT Thursday for LEZ142>145.
     Small Craft Advisory until 10 AM EDT Thursday for LEZ146>149.

&&

$$
SYNOPSIS...Kahn
NEAR TERM...Jaszka/Kahn
SHORT TERM...26
LONG TERM...26
AVIATION...Jaszka
MARINE...26
