680 
FXUS61 KCLE 261720
AFDCLE

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Cleveland OH
120 PM EDT Wed Oct 26 2022

.SYNOPSIS...
Low pressure will move from Central Lower Michigan into Canada 
today, pulling a cold front east across the area this afternoon. 
Strong high pressure will build overhead on Thursday and continue to 
influence the region through the weekend as it moves east into New 
England.

&&

.NEAR TERM /THROUGH THURSDAY/...
The best coverage of rain showers remains across portions of far
NE OH and NW PA early this afternoon. Rain chances will continue
to decrease from west to east across the region through the rest
of the day, though residual cloudiness may remain. As of now,
the cold front is currently located somewhere between FDY and
MFD, and will continue pushing east across the area through the
rest of the afternoon.

Previous discussion...
An elongated area of surface low pressure extends from central 
Michigan into northern Indiana this morning. Meanwhile a 
closed upper level low over Indiana will open and lift across the 
lower Great Lakes this afternoon. As the surface low continues
into Canada, an occluded front will wrap in from the southwest 
this morning, followed by a stronger push of cold advection as 
the trough swings through with a wind shift to the northwest 
this afternoon. Bands of showers, largely driven by low and mid-
level moisture advection ahead of the upper low, will continue 
to lift north and east through the morning. A mid-level dry 
slot can already be seen wrapping into this system on water 
vapor, but expecting sufficient low and mid-level moisture to 
remain for showers to fill in as the occluded front is pulled 
northeast across the area this morning. The highest pops are in 
the east ahead of the front with showers already ongoing in NW 
Ohio overnight. Most areas will see a break in the showers for 
a period this afternoon before returning later with some 
lingering mid-level deformation accompanying a fairly sharp low 
level trough. High temperatures will occur this morning for 
most areas, then cool through the afternoon as cold advection 
increases. Eastern areas may see temperatures hold steady for 
more of the afternoon but will generally be in the mid 50s to 
near 60 degrees. Although the airmass behind the front is not 
cold enough for much lake enhancement, the well pronounced 
trough crossing the lake is expected to provide the best 
coverage of showers heading into this evening across portions of
NE Ohio and NW Pennsylvania east of Cleveland. Rainfall with 
this system will be around a third of an inch. 

The upper trough will quickly pull away to the northeast and we lose 
moisture above 850mb by 06Z tonight. Some clearing is expected to 
begin across NW Ohio towards sunset as high pressure builds in from 
the west, with a shallow cloud deck remaining across the eastern 
half of the area into Thursday morning. This cloud deck is expected 
to scatter out with increasing subsidence on Thursday. Where clouds 
clear in NW Ohio tonight, temperatures are likely to drop to 
the mid 30s, while eastern areas with clouds may remain in the 
lower 40s. Thursday will tend to be the coolest day of the week 
with areas near the lakeshore struggling to surpass 50 degrees 
with mid 50s across the south and west.

&&

.SHORT TERM /THURSDAY NIGHT THROUGH SATURDAY NIGHT/...
High pressure will slide from the Great Lakes to New England through 
this period, and will be the dominant feature controlling our 
weather. Light northeast winds will gradually turn more easterly. 
Temperatures will gradually moderate, with highs in the upper 
50s/lower 60s for Friday nudging into the low-mid 60s for most of us 
on Saturday. There may be some potential for highs to end up a bit 
warmer than currently forecast both days, especially on Saturday as 
winds turn more easterly. Both nights will be seasonable to somewhat 
chilly for late October. Most areas outside of the lake influence 
should dip into the mid-upper 30s both nights, with typically 
stronger radiational cooling areas (rural/suburban areas away from 
the lake, especially in valleys) probably dipping to near or locally 
a bit below freezing. The growing season has been deemed to be 
"over" so we will not be issuing frost/freeze headlines, but those 
with any gardening/agricultural interests that are still active 
should be prepared for some frost away from the lake Friday and 
Saturday mornings.

&&

.LONG TERM /SUNDAY THROUGH TUESDAY/...
A longwave trough centered over the Plains on Sunday will very 
gradually move east towards the Great Lakes/upper Ohio Valley into 
early next week, with the trough axis not moving east of our area 
until around midweek. A closed, stacked low embedded within this 
trough will eject out of the Plains and be located over Arkansas 
Sunday morning, moving into the central Great Lakes Sunday night 
into Monday while shearing out, weakening, and opening up into a 
shortwave trough. Additional small shortwaves/little vort maxes will 
likely continue rotating around the larger longwave trough axis into 
the first half of next week. 

Eventually, expect cloudier and occasionally showery weather to 
spread in as the shearing out low pressure tracks into the Great 
Lakes late Sunday into Monday. I say "eventually" because with this 
cycle we again had to slow down the arrival of rain chances with 
this system. The European model has been fairly consistent with this 
slower solution and the GFS and Canadian are increasingly on board. 
There's fairly good agreement that the greatest potential for 
showers is Sunday night into Monday morning, and while the whole set-
up (a closed low ejecting out of the Plains into a ridgy pattern) is 
ripe for further forecast adjustments, the broader pattern of 
prolonged south-southwest flow and moisture return ahead of an 
approaching longwave trough does suggest it should try to rain at 
some point. Felt that agreement is strong enough to introduce a 
period of "likely" shower wording across our whole area at some 
point Sunday night into the first half of Monday. This system does 
not have impressive dynamics or a dramatic amount of moisture to 
work with, so rain amounts should be modest and no other hazards are 
anticipated. Some potential for showers will continue into Monday 
night and Tuesday until the longwave trough axis moves east of the 
region, though the greatest potential for showers will depend on 
finer scale details that are difficult to resolve this far out. The 
forecast currently depicts POPs gradually diminishing from west to 
east later Monday through Tuesday, with dry weather expected to 
return by Wednesday. The forecast will have shower chances mentioned 
for a few periods in a row late Sunday into early next week, but 
there should be dry breaks between those shower chances.

Temperatures will be fairly close to average in the long term, with 
highs on either side of 60 and overnight lows in the 40s/50s. There 
may be some upside to highs on Sunday if we see enough sunshine.

&&

.AVIATION /18Z Wednesday THROUGH Monday/...
Mixed-bag of MVFR and IFR conditions across the TAF sites early
this afternoon, associated with both lower ceilings and vsbys.
Vsbys should improve through the rest of the day as rain chances
decrease, although ceilings in the MVFR to perhaps IFR range may
persist through much of the TAF period with the exception of
TOL/FDY where more substantial cloud breaks are possible 
beginning as early as this evening. Fog is certainly a
possibility at some of the southern TAF sites tonight, though 
uncertainty on cloud cover precludes any mention in the TAFs for
this update.

Winds are generally in the 10 to 15 knot range early this
afternoon, out of the south and southwest ahead of the cold
front, shifting towards the west to northwest behind the cold
front. Periodic wind gusts of 20 to 25 knots can be expected
with the front. Winds will weaken to less than 10 knots tonight
into tomorrow, shifting more towards the northwest and north. 

Outlook...Non-VFR possible late Sunday into Monday in rain showers.

&&

.MARINE...
An occluded front will cross the lake from southwest to northeast 
this morning through the early afternoon, causing winds to shift 
from the southeast to the southwest while increasing to 15-20 knots. 
A secondary cold front, with a sharper wind shift to the northwest, 
will cross the lake this afternoon and early evening from west to 
east. Winds will increase to 20-25 knots for several hours behind 
this front before gradually subsiding overnight tonight into 
Thursday morning. The fresh onshore winds and increased waves 
continue to warrant a Small Craft Advisory this afternoon through 
tonight for all of the nearshore waters. Nudged up the start time of 
the advisory a bit across the board based on latest trends with the 
onset of stronger northwesterly/onshore winds. Winds will gradually 
turn more northeasterly into Thursday and then easterly into Friday 
as high pressure slides from the central Great Lakes into New 
England. Winds may occasionally exceed 15 knots in this timeframe 
with waves potentially nearing, but likely staying short of, small 
craft criteria. Winds gradually turn southeasterly Saturday night 
into Sunday ahead of low pressure moving from Arkansas towards the 
central Great Lakes, with generally southerly winds continuing into 
the start of next week. This will be a weak system, and sustained 
winds are favored to remain below 20 knots as it moves through the 
region.

&&

.CLE WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
OH...None.
PA...None.
MARINE...Small Craft Advisory until 4 AM EDT Thursday for LEZ142>145.
     Small Craft Advisory until 10 AM EDT Thursday for LEZ146>149.

&&

$$
SYNOPSIS...KEC
NEAR TERM...KEC/Kahn
SHORT TERM...Sullivan
LONG TERM...Sullivan
AVIATION...Kahn
MARINE...Sullivan
