703 
FXUS61 KCLE 260142
AFDCLE

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Cleveland OH
942 PM EDT Tue Oct 25 2022

.SYNOPSIS...
High pressure exits eastward as a cold front approaches from the 
western Great Lakes and Mid Mississippi Valley. A low will move 
north-northeastward along the front and should advance from the Mid 
Mississippi Valley toward central Quebec through Wednesday. This 
should allow the cold front to sweep eastward across our region 
Wednesday afternoon and evening. Behind the front, another high 
pressure ridge affects our area through the end of this week as the 
core of the ridge shifts from the central United States toward New 
England.

&&

.NEAR TERM /THROUGH WEDNESDAY NIGHT/...
9:30 PM Update...

Scattered showers have reached TOL with the ASOS station now
reporting light rain. The main area of steady rain is still in
Indiana with a lot of virga as far east as north central Ohio,
so continued the trend of showers slowly expanding eastward into
the region the rest of this evening and tonight. Slow is the
key since the system is occluding and upstream radars show the
activity only making slow eastward progress. Low temps look
reasonable for tonight.

6:30 PM Update...
Showers are approaching the NW Ohio border ahead of the
occluding cold front. There are some light returns in NW and
north central Ohio ahead of the main forcing, but very dry low-
levels are preventing this from reaching the ground. Timing of
the showers appears to be on track tonight, so no changes to the
forecast. Rain showers should reach NW Ohio after 06Z then
slowly spread east late tonight and Wednesday morning.

Original Discussion...

High pressure at the surface and aloft exits eastward through 
tonight as a shortwave trough and embedded mid- to upper-level low 
advance NE'ward from the Ozarks to western OH and vicinity. A 
frontal surface low accompanying the shortwave disturbance should 
advance NNE'ward from the Mid-MS Valley toward southeastern Lower MI 
as the surface front approaches our CWA from the Mid-MS Valley and 
western Great Lakes. Ahead of the low pressure system, moistening 
isentropic ascent aloft will allow cloud cover to increase, thicken, 
and lower generally from west to east. Scattered to widespread light 
to moderate rain showers associated with the isentropic ascent 
should overspread our CWA generally from west to east after midnight 
tonight and advance as far east as about the NE OH/NW PA border by 
daybreak. Given a dry antecedent low-level atmosphere, it will 
likely take some time for precip to reach the surface via the wet-
bulb effect. Low temperatures should reach mainly the lower to mid 
50's around daybreak Wednesday morning as increasing cloud cover and 
low-level WAA limit nocturnal cooling somewhat.

On Wednesday through Wednesday night, the shortwave trough should 
advance farther NE'ward to southern QC as the attendant frontal 
surface low moves farther NNE'ward toward northern QC. This should 
allow the surface cold front to sweep E'ward through our CWA 
Wednesday afternoon and evening. Behind the front, another high 
pressure ridge at the surface and aloft builds from the central U.S. 
and western Great Lakes. Pre-frontal moist isentropic ascent aloft 
and low-level convergence and associated ascent along the front will 
generate scattered to widespread rain showers in our CWA. Primarily 
fair weather is expected behind the front as the stabilizing ridge 
builds. However, there should be a brief window for lake-enhanced 
rain showers over and generally southeast of Lake Erie Wednesday 
evening, in and near the snowbelt, as CAA across the ~12C lake 
causes lake surface to 850 mb temperature differences to grow to ~9C 
and abundant low to mid-level moisture should permit the seeder-
feeder process between a mid-level cloud deck and lake-effect cloud 
layer. Any lake-enhanced rain showers should end by around midnight 
as greater moisture and the cloud deck in the mid-levels exit 
generally E'ward. Wednesday will be considerably cooler, with near-
normal highs in the upper 50's to lower 60's prior to the cold front 
passage. Low temperatures should reach the mid 30's to lower 40's in 
northern OH and upper 30's to mid 40's in NW PA around daybreak 
Thursday morning in the cold sector.

&&

.SHORT TERM /THURSDAY THROUGH FRIDAY NIGHT/...
Quiet weather is expected for the short term period with high 
pressure overhead. Temperatures will be below average on Thursday in 
the mid-50s, increasing slightly to near normal in the upper 50s to 
lower 60s by Friday under mostly sunny skies. Both Thursday and 
Friday nights will be chilly with lows in the mid to upper 30s.

&&

.LONG TERM /SATURDAY THROUGH TUESDAY/...
Quiet weather will persist for the first half of the long term 
period as high pressure slowly shifts east into New England by the 
end of the weekend. Otherwise, a closed, upper-level low across the 
ArkLaTex region late Saturday will become an open wave as it weakens 
and moves northeast, reaching the OH Valley by late Sunday. 
Precipitation in the form of rain is to be expected sometime Sunday 
evening into Monday, depending on model timing differences, although 
weak upper-level dynamics should keep rain on the lighter side and 
result in generally scattered coverage. Still have rain chances for 
Halloween eve (Monday), though given the anticipated scattered 
coverage and light amounts, think that most areas should escape rain-
free. Following this system, high pressure will once again return 
across the region, resulting in dry weather for Tuesday.

Temperatures in the long term period will be near to slightly above 
average with highs in the low to mid 60s. Low temperatures will also 
be near to slightly above average in the mid to upper 40s.

&&

.AVIATION /00Z Wednesday THROUGH Sunday/...
A cold front will slowly progress eastward through the region
late tonight and Wednesday causing rain showers to spread across
the TAF sites. Showers will first reach TOL and FDY after 06 or
07Z then MFD, CLE, and CAK between 09 and 11Z. It will take
until almost mid morning for the showers to reach YNG and ERI. 
Cigs and vis should stay VFR for the most part during the first 
couple of hours of the rain, then gradually come down to MVFR. 
Occasional IFR is possible, especially Wednesday afternoon at 
MFD, CLE, CAK, YNG, and ERI, but confidence is low. Showers will
end from west to east during the late afternoon and evening 
Wednesday, although western sites will dry out by early 
afternoon.

SE winds of 5-10 knots tonight will become W to NW behind the
front Wednesday and increase to 10-20 knots with gusts of 15-25
knots during the afternoon. 

Outlook...Non-VFR possible in lingering isolated rain showers 
Wednesday night through the predawn hours of Thursday morning 
and again on Sunday.

&&

.MARINE...
Quiet marine conditions will continue into Wednesday morning with 
light southerly flow around 10 knots. Rough marine conditions will 
return on Wednesday as a cold front move east across the lake, 
ushering in west to northwest winds of 20 to perhaps 25 knots 
through Wednesday night. A Small Craft Advisory has been issued for 
the entire lake for Wednesday afternoon/evening into Thursday 
morning. Conditions should rapidly improve from west to east through 
the overnight hours. Winds will decrease to around 10 to 15 knots 
and shift towards the north, then northeast throughout the day 
Thursday. By Thursday night into Friday morning, slightly stronger 
east to northeast flow of 15 to 20 knots will arrive, and could 
elicit concern for near Small Craft conditions, especially across 
the central and western basins of the lake. Light, southeast flow 
less than 10 knots will return across the lake by late Friday into 
Saturday.

&&

.CLE WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
OH...None.
PA...None.
MARINE...Small Craft Advisory from 4 PM Wednesday to 4 AM EDT Thursday 
     for LEZ142>145.
     Small Craft Advisory from 8 PM Wednesday to 10 AM EDT Thursday 
     for LEZ146>149.

&&

$$
SYNOPSIS...Jaszka
NEAR TERM...Garuckas/Jaszka
SHORT TERM...Kahn
LONG TERM...Kahn
AVIATION...Garuckas
MARINE...Kahn
