773 
FXUS64 KLUB 262341
AFDLUB

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Lubbock TX
641 PM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

...New AVIATION...

.SHORT TERM...
(This evening through Thursday)
Issued at 217 PM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

A surface low over southeastern Colorado will keep winds mostly 
out of a southerly direction this evening and much of the night. 
The surface low will migrate southward across northeastern New 
Mexico into the far northwestern Texas Panhandle/western Oklahoma 
Panhandle by mid morning in response to what will be an 
approaching upper low. The upper shortwave that will eventually 
become the upper low is currently over Idaho and is expected to 
push southeastward towards Colorado/Wyoming and become a closed 
low by 12Z tomorrow. The low will then deepen slightly as it 
reaches Farmington, New Mexico by 18Z. Models have a general 
consensus of having the low over Cline's Corner by 00Z tomorrow 
evening. The speed and location of the low will be one factor in 
helping or hindering the possibility for convection along the 
dryline before 00Z tomorrow evening. Currently models are 
relatively dry before 00Z with the exception of higher res models 
such as the 12Z HRRR and 00Z NSSL FV3. The HRRR mostly keeps 
precip in the form of virga showers pre-00Z with convection 
developing along the dryline east of the Caprock at 00Z. The FV3 
is the most bullish in terms of afternoon precip with virga 
showers developing by 18Z behind the dryline with coverage 
increasing just before 00Z as the cold front moves into the 
region. A mention of slight chance of showers and thunderstorms 
has been introduced across much of the FA for late tomorrow 
afternoon as enough mid/upper level lift should be present for the
development of at least virga showers with a rumble or two of 
thunder. The overall main threat from any storm that does develop 
will be wind gusts up to 60 mph.

&&

.LONG TERM...
(Thursday night through next Tuesday)
Issued at 217 PM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

Isolated to scattered showers and thunderstorms ongoing to begin 
Thursday evening should quickly expand in coverage as the upper low 
over central New Mexico moves southeastward toward Hobbs by 
midnight. Increasing vertical motion and cooling mid level 
temperatures eroding lingering convective cap will see an expansion 
of storms along the dryline across the eastern third of the forecast 
area as well as increasing high-based and elevated convection in the 
dry air west of the dryline and north of a southward-moving cold 
front. There remains a narrow window for marginally severe 
thunderstorms along the dryline early in the evening with progged 
surface-based CAPE of 1250-1750 J/kg across the Rolling Plains at 
00Z. Precipitation in the form of rain will wrap-around the low as 
continues its march to the east-southeast late Thursday night 
through Friday with likely to categorical PoPs justified between 
midnight and noon before slowly tapering off Friday afternoon to 
early evening. The post-storm period from Saturday through the end 
of the forecast period will see slowly moderating temperatures as 
heights and thicknesses increase slowly underneath a continuation of 
generally cyclonic mid to upper level flow.

&&

.AVIATION...
(00Z TAFS)
Issued at 636 PM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

VFR conditions will continue through the majority of this TAF
period. Winds roughly 800 ft AGL will increase overnight leading
to LLWS at all three TAF sites tonight through Thursday morning.
Tomorrow afternoon, southwesterly surface winds will become
breezy and towards the end of the TAF period showers and 
thunderstorms should be developing. However, confidence on a 
direct impact to a TAF site remains too low at this time to 
include a mention in the TAF but KCDS and KPVW will be the most 
likely sites to see any activity.

&&

.LUB WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
None.
&&

$$

SHORT TERM...51
LONG TERM....07
AVIATION...58
