531 
FXUS64 KLUB 261702
AFDLUB

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Lubbock TX
1202 PM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

...New AVIATION...

.SHORT TERM...
(Today and tonight)
Issued at 315 AM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

Quiet weather will dominate today before the next system affects the 
area on Thursday and Friday. This next upper trough will slowly 
progress across the Intermountain West today. In response to this 
deepening trough, a surface cyclone will develop in lee of the 
Rockies. The only effect locally will be to increase southerly 
surface winds into the breezy category this afternoon. Temperatures 
will receive a boost of a few degrees from the southerly winds bring 
values closer to seasonal averages for late October. Upper level 
flow will begin to back overnight tonight as the trough approaches 
closer to the area.

&&

.LONG TERM...
(Thursday through Tuesday)
Issued at 315 AM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

A potent and progressive Pacific Low remains on track to pass 
southeast across the the Four Corners region tomorrow morning with 
strong surface cyclogenesis out ahead over the Texas Panhandle. 
Showers and thunderstorms are expected to develop along and out 
ahead of a triple point that is expected to be somewhere between 
Dumas and Childress by mid/late afternoon on Thursday, with more 
convection likely associated with a dryline extending south through 
the Rolling Plains, that will begin to push east after sunset. A 
window favorable for supercell development across the southern Texas 
Panhandle and Rolling Plains will exist from late afternoon tomorrow 
into the evening hours before shifting east of our area by midnight. 
As the upper low advances southeast across New Mexico late in the 
day, 50kt H50 divergent flow will spread northeast over the surface 
low and dryline. The OOZ NAM depicts a sharper dryline, positioned 
farther west into our CWA than previous runs, basically backed up 
against the escarpment. Deterministic guidance has been consistent 
with impressive low level wind fields associated with the surface 
low, but meagher surface moisture with dewpoints struggling to reach 
50F east of the escarpment. Elevated MUCAPE had steadily been modest 
around 1000J/Kg but with the OOZ NAM backing the dryline farther 
west, now seeing values exceeding 2000J/Kg as cold air aloft 
positions over our northeast quadrant of counties. If the forecast 
trends more toward the NAM solution, strong storms will develop and 
persist off the Caprock through the evening hours, with hail and 
strong wind gusts being the primary threat. Tornado development 
can't be completely ruled out attm in proximity to wherever the 
triple point is ultimately established, but most of the strongest 
convection away from the surface low is expected to be elevated 
where it will be able to tap into the best thermodynamic instability 
aloft.

A strong cold front will fill in behind the surface low overnight 
Thursday into Friday morning with cloud cover persisting throughout 
the day with breezy north winds, along with lingering rainfall over 
the Rolling Plains into Friday afternoon. Temperatures will peak in 
the mid 50s Friday afternoon. The potent system will release its 
grip on our area Friday night with surface high pressure building in 
from the west. The easing winds and partially clearing skies 
overnight into Saturday will lead to some spots on the Caprock 
approaching or dropping below the freezing mark, especially the 
farther west and north you go. Highs will rebound back into the 
60s Saturday and Sunday as northwest flow aloft will hold back a 
full rebound back toward normal until Tuesday when a shortwave 
ridge lifts temperatures into the 70s.

&&

.AVIATION...
(18Z TAFS)
Issued at 1201 PM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

VFR conditions will prevail.

&&

.LUB WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
None.
&&

$$

SHORT TERM...01
LONG TERM....55
AVIATION...51
