459 
FXUS64 KLUB 260559
AFDLUB

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Lubbock TX
1259 AM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

...New AVIATION...

.SHORT TERM...
(This evening through Wednesday)
Issued at 217 PM CDT Tue Oct 25 2022

Quiet weather will continue tonight and tomorrow as upper flow 
becomes more zonal. Surface high pressure will dominate much of 
the central US tonight allowing winds to become light. This will 
allow temps to drop into the 30s and 40s once again. A surface low
is expected to develop across the foothills of the Central 
Rockies ahead of an upper shortwave that will be making its way 
eastward across the northwestern US. This surface low will keep 
winds out of a more southerly direction and increase wind speeds 
to 15-20 mph by tomorrow afternoon and warm afternoon highs into 
the upper 60s to mid 70s.

&&

.LONG TERM...
(Wednesday night through next Monday)
Issued at 217 PM CDT Tue Oct 25 2022

An upper low crossing over West Texas Thursday night and Friday 
remains the focus for the long term portion of the forecast. This 
low is progged to move to the southeastward from eastern Idaho late 
Wednesday to southeast New Mexico midnight Thursday night and then 
to the Metroplex midnight Friday night. Latest model runs are 
generally consistent in the overall evolution, have trended a bit to 
the south relative to previous runs, and will continue to favor the 
slower end of what is really a relatively narrow dispersion 
regarding timing. The slower, further south solutions should favor a 
bit more low to mid level warm and moist advection, in turn favoring 
higher precipitation chances on the dryline very late in the day 
Thursday into Thursday evening as well as potentially higher and 
longer duration precipitation chances as the moisture wraps around 
the system as it exists to the east. Another light freeze will be 
possible across the northwestern quadrant Friday night behind the 
departed system followed by fair weather and moderating temperatures 
through the remainder of the forecast period under a generally 
northwesterly upper flow regime.

&&

.AVIATION...
(06Z TAFS)
Issued at 1256 AM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

VFR conditions will continue through the TAF period with breezy
southerly winds on Wednesday afternoon at all TAF sites.

&&

.LUB WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
None.
&&

$$

SHORT TERM...51
LONG TERM....07
AVIATION...01
