306 
FXUS64 KHUN 260554
AFDHUN

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Huntsville AL
1254 AM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

...New AVIATION...

.NEAR TERM...
(Tonight)
Issued at 829 PM CDT Tue Oct 25 2022

An active afternoon has given way to a relatively tranquil 
evening across the Tennessee Valley, as all precipitation has now 
pushed east of the area. In wake of the line of storms that moved 
through late this afternoon, winds have mostly subsided and are 
presently under 10 kts across most of the area and have veered to
the WNW/NW. This will help to advect in a cooler air mass over 
the course of the overnight hours, with temperatures falling into 
the mid 40s in most locations by early Wednesday morning. With 
most locations receiving somewhere between 0.5" to 1.0" of 
rainfall, there will be plenty of boundary layer moisture 
overnight. However, winds should just stay high enough to support 
some mixing of the low-levels and keep fog at bay. However, low 
stratus will continue to develop and build in overnight, with 
broken to overcast decks around 2-3 kft lingering through the 
remainder of the overnight period. Only tweaks were to cloud cover
to account for the latest satellite trends as the forecast 
remains on track. 

&&

.SHORT TERM...
(Wednesday through Friday night)
Issued at 208 PM CDT Tue Oct 25 2022

After this shortwave ejects to the northeast, a period of dry and
seasonal weather is anticipated through Friday night. Highs will
warm back into the 70s Thursday and Friday, with lows back in the
upper 40s to lower 50s by the end of the week. A cutoff upper low
will shift east from the southern U.S. on Friday into Friday night,
with east-southeast flow in low levels developing over the TN 
valley, but no precipitation through this point.

&&

.LONG TERM...
(Saturday through Tuesday)
Issued at 208 CDT Tue Oct 25 2022

The nearly stacked low will sluggishly move east into the lower 
MS Saturday, before model differences emerge on when this is 
enveloped by larger scale troughing in the central CONUS. Warm 
conveyor belt precipitation will occur on Saturday into early 
Sunday before a dry slot pushes into the region. Lighter rain 
showers will be possible into Monday and early Tuesday the central
U.S. trough translates east through the region. The airmass 
behind front will once again be a modified mT airmass, with little
change in temperatures, with highs still in the upper 60s to 
lower 70s and lows in the upper 40s to lower 50s by Tuesday 
morning.

&&

.AVIATION...
(06Z TAFS)
Issued at 1254 AM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

A cold front continues to push southeastward across northern 
AL/southern TN early this morning, with sfc winds expected to 
shift from WSW-to-WNW and increase to 8G16 knots in the wake of 
the front. Low stratus clouds (providing MVFR cigs arnd FL015-025)
and patchy lgt RA are expected for a few hours in the postfrontal
airmass, but conds will improve by 14Z as winds veer further to 
NNW and begin to advect a drier airmass into the region. Aside 
from a few passing Ci clouds, clear skies are expected by late 
aftn, with sfc flow expected to shift to NNE and subside arnd 
sunset.

&&

.HUN WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
AL...None.
TN...None.

&&

$$

NEAR TERM...AMP
SHORT TERM...17
LONG TERM...17
AVIATION...70/DD
