798 
FXUS64 KHUN 261701
AFDHUN

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Huntsville AL
1201 PM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

...New AVIATION...

.NEAR TERM...
(Rest of Today)
Issued at 945 AM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

The cold front is now well to the south and east of the forecast
area with northwesterly winds as a surface high builds in from the
northwest. Current visible satellite imagery indicates a broad 
area of post-frontal stratus that extends from N AL northwards 
into the Great Lakes. The trajectory of the stratus deck should 
keep clouds in the area through early afternoon with clearing from
southwest to northeast later this afternoon into this evening. 
Due to the lingering cloud cover and weak cold air advection, high
temperatures will only be in the upper 50s to low 60s. 

&&

.SHORT TERM...
(Tonight through Friday night)
Issued at 353 AM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

Westerly flow in the mid-levels will back to the WSW overnight, 
as another, slightly stronger mid-level trough digs southeastward 
through the central Rockies. Although this may lead to a few high-
clouds at times, the lower stratus deck should continue to erode 
from the southwest, leaving mostly clear skies and conditions 
favorable for radiational cooling/fog development if northeasterly
winds diminish sufficiently. Lows will drop into the lower 40s, 
with highs returning to the u60s-l70s Thursday under mostly sunny 
skies. Short term model consensus suggests that aforementioned 
trough will weaken as it drops southeastward into the high plains 
of west TX by 12Z Friday, and should evolve into a cutoff low that
will drift slowly eastward across central TX Friday and Friday 
night. Although increasingly diffluent flow to the east of the low
will promote saturation aloft and an increase in the coverage of 
mid/high-level clouds by Saturday morning, the lower troposphere 
will remain dry given persistent advection from a surface ridge 
centered across New England. Thus, we will only introduce a slight
chance POP for light rain returning to the southwestern half of 
the CWFA prior to 12Z Saturday.

&&

.LONG TERM...
(Saturday through Tuesday)
Issued at 353 AM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

This weekend, our next system will take a similar route as the 
one that just went through yesterday. On Saturday, it will lift NE
out of the ArkLaTex, and the upper level and sfc low will slide 
just NW of the TN Valley. The sfc low seems to occlude and has 
another sfc low that scoots just south of the forecast area, 
keeping us out of the true warm sector. We will still manage to 
see an increase in temps and moisture, but forecast soundings are 
showing another high shear/low cape set up. With these soundings, 
kept thunder out for this forecast package.

The divergence between models is not nearly as vast as it has 
been for this event in previous runs, and overall seems to have 
slowed it down. The NBM is still pushing precip into the TN Valley
too fast so pulled back on Saturday POPs. Otherwise, expecting 
showers to become numerous by Saturday night and slowly coming to 
an end by Sunday night from west to east as a dry slot arrives. 
This will provide us a break in the rain before the trough axis 
slides through and a few wrap around showers return on Monday. 
High pressure will take over for Tuesday's forecast and help 
decrease the cloud cover in place. Daytime highs will hover in the
upper 60s during the extended forecast with a dip into the lower 
60s on Sunday. Overnight lows will be stagnate in the 50s with the
coolest night of the period occurring on Tuesday night when they 
fall into the 40s.

&&

.AVIATION...
(18Z TAFS)
Issued at 1201 PM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

MVFR conditions at both terminals with stubborn post-frontal 
stratus in place. Went a little more pessimistic with slower 
improvements to VFR. For now, have ceilings improving to VFR 
around 20z at MSL and 21z at HSV. This later clearing could also 
set the stage for fog tonight but winds may stay up just enough to
prevent widespread fog formation. Due to this uncertainty, did 
not include fog in the forecast at this time.

&&

.HUN WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
AL...None.
TN...None.
&&

$$

NEAR TERM...MA
SHORT TERM....70/DD
LONG TERM....JMS
AVIATION...MA
