558 
FXUS64 KHUN 260853
AFDHUN

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Huntsville AL
353 AM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

...New NEAR TERM, SHORT TERM, LONG TERM...

.NEAR TERM...
(Today)
Issued at 353 AM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

A compact, negatively-tilted shortwave trough over the OH Valley 
will advance northeastward across the eastern Great Lakes today, 
gradually weakening with time. The surface cold front related to 
this impressive mid-latitude cyclone will continue to progress 
southeastward through the CWFA, and should exit our southeastern 
counties shortly after 12Z, with a band of light sprinkles 
preceding the front and gusty WNW winds and low stratus clouds in 
its wake. Temperatures will advectively cool into the mid 40s by 
sunrise, and may initially struggle to rise very much given the 
anticipated coverage of stratus clouds and weak cold advection. 
However, this afternoon, the stratus deck is expected to erode 
from SW-to-NE, with highs ranging from the mid 60s (SW) to 
u50s-l60s (NE).

&&

.SHORT TERM...
(Tonight through Friday night)
Issued at 353 AM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

Westerly flow in the mid-levels will back to the WSW overnight, 
as another, slightly stronger mid-level trough digs southeastward 
through the central Rockies. Although this may lead to a few high-
clouds at times, the lower stratus deck should continue to erode 
from the southwest, leaving mostly clear skies and conditions 
favorable for radiational cooling/fog development if northeasterly
winds diminish sufficiently. Lows will drop into the lower 40s, 
with highs returning to the u60s-l70s Thursday under mostly sunny 
skies. Short term model consensus suggests that aforementioned 
trough will weaken as it drops southeastward into the high plains 
of west TX by 12Z Friday, and should evolve into a cutoff low that
will drift slowly eastward across central TX Friday and Friday 
night. Although increasingly diffluent flow to the east of the low
will promote saturation aloft and an increase in the coverage of 
mid/high-level clouds by Saturday morning, the lower troposphere 
will remain dry given persistent advection from a surface ridge 
centered across New England. Thus, we will only introduce a slight
chance POP for light rain returning to the southwestern half of 
the CWFA prior to 12Z Saturday.

&&

.LONG TERM...
(Saturday through Tuesday)
Issued at 353 AM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

This weekend, our next system will take a similar route as the 
one that just went through yesterday. On Saturday, it will lift NE
out of the ArkLaTex, and the upper level and sfc low will slide 
just NW of the TN Valley. The sfc low seems to occlude and has 
another sfc low that scoots just south of the forecast area, 
keeping us out of the true warm sector. We will still manage to 
see an increase in temps and moisture, but forecast soundings are 
showing another high shear/low cape set up. With these soundings, 
kept thunder out for this forecast package.

The divergence between models is not nearly as vast as it has 
been for this event in previous runs, and overall seems to have 
slowed it down. The NBM is still pushing precip into the TN Valley
too fast so pulled back on Saturday POPs. Otherwise, expecting 
showers to become numerous by Saturday night and slowly coming to 
an end by Sunday night from west to east as a dry slot arrives. 
This will provide us a break in the rain before the trough axis 
slides through and a few wrap around showers return on Monday. 
High pressure will take over for Tuesday's forecast and help 
decrease the cloud cover in place. Daytime highs will hover in the
upper 60s during the extended forecast with a dip into the lower 
60s on Sunday. Overnight lows will be stagnate in the 50s with the
coolest night of the period occurring on Tuesday night when they 
fall into the 40s.

&&

.AVIATION...
(06Z TAFS)
Issued at 1254 AM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

A cold front continues to push southeastward across northern 
AL/southern TN early this morning, with sfc winds expected to 
shift from WSW-to-WNW and increase to 8G16 knots in the wake of 
the front. Low stratus clouds (providing MVFR cigs arnd FL015-025)
and patchy lgt RA are expected for a few hours in the postfrontal
airmass, but conds will improve by 14Z as winds veer further to 
NNW and begin to advect a drier airmass into the region. Aside 
from a few passing Ci clouds, clear skies are expected by late 
aftn, with sfc flow expected to shift to NNE and subside arnd 
sunset.

&&

.HUN WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
AL...None.
TN...None.

&&

$$

NEAR TERM...70/DD
SHORT TERM...70/DD
LONG TERM...JMS
AVIATION...70/DD
