271 
FXUS64 KHUN 262337
AFDHUN

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Huntsville AL
637 PM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

...New AVIATION...

.NEAR TERM...
(Tonight)
Issued at 244 PM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

A large area of low level cloud cover around 2500 feet remains in
place behind a post frontal trough axis that extends from the Ohio
Valley southwest into northern Alabama. This and cold air
advection has kept highs from climbing above 50 degrees in
portions of southern middle Tennessee and the mid 50s to around 
60 degrees further south. Expect some additional sunshine to peak 
through as the cloud cover dissipates this afternoon. Could still 
see some highs in the low 60s, despite cloud cover today. 

We do expect the cloud cover to dissipate, early this evening.
However, it may hold on in southern middle Tennessee through then. 
Expect clear skies later this evening and overnight, but winds
should remain between 5 and 10 mph much of the night. Thus, fog
should remain at bay. A cool night should be in store with
temperatures falling to near dewpoints into the lower 40s
primarily. 

&&

.SHORT TERM...
(Thursday through Saturday)
Issued at 244 PM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

The area of high pressure to our north will continue to push east
northeast Thursday into Friday. This should keep winds around 5 
mph, as a weak pressure gradient remains over the area south of 
the area of high pressure. There might be some sheltered areas 
that could see calm winds, elsewhere winds should remain around 5 
mph at night. This should keep fog very isolated at worst 
Thursday night. Highs should warm noticeably without cloud cover 
on Thursday into the upper 60s to around 70 degrees. Winds will
become more easterly between 5 and 10 mph with some gusts to
around 15 mph in the afternoon.

At the same time, an upper low dives southeast into the desert 
southwest and then into Texas through this period. A continued 
warming trend should occur as a result with highs climbing into 
the low 70s on Friday. Increased moisture advection from the east 
and southeast should keep lows from dropping much below the upper 
40s/lower 50s on Friday night. 

A surface low associated with the aforementioned upper low is 
forecast by models to push east into far eastern Texas late Friday
afternoon. Lift ahead of this feature should bring mostly cloudy 
conditions to much of northern Alabama by then. This cloud cover 
should spread east and lower Friday night into Saturday morning. 
Some isolated to widely scattered shower could occur mainly near 
and west of the I-65 corridor through daybreak on Saturday. Lows 
should be a bit warmer Saturday morning and may be a bit too cool 
right now. For now though, kept lows in the upper 40s east and 50 
to 55 degree range west. Not seeing enough elevated or surface 
based CAPE this far east to include thunderstorms at this time. 
Rain chances should increase on Saturday over the Tennessee 
Valley, as the surface low pushes into western Mississippi and 
eastern Arkansas. 

&&

.LONG TERM...
(Saturday night through Wednesday)
Issued at 244 PM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

By Saturday night (maybe late Saturday afternoon),good shear will
continue to be in place and some extremely meager elevated/surface
based CAPE may materialize, as the surface low moves northeastward
through western Tennessee. Would not be surprised to see wind 
advisory conditions approached or met late Saturday afternoon into
Saturday evening, as the low level jet cranks up ahead of the 
surface low to our west. A strong storm cannot be ruled out 
Saturday night, but not expecting any severe activity given the 
limited nature of CAPE seen in guidance. We could see another half
of an inch to an inch of additional rainfall, with some locally 
higher amounts possible.

Post frontal shower activity looks to hang on behind the front on
Sunday. ECMWF is a bit slower with the progression of the front 
and that may keep some storms in the area Sunday morning if that 
ends up being correct and strong storm potential may occur longer 
if so. More confident on post frontal shower activity though 
right now. This light shower activity should linger and become 
more scattered through Monday. 

This will keep us fairly cloudy and cool through then. Highs
generally in the 60s with lows in the 40s and 50s expected. 

Much drier air behind one last frontal boundary should bring the
cloudy/cool pattern to an end towards the middle of next week. 

&&

.AVIATION...
(00Z TAFS)
Issued at 637 PM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

VFR conditions will prevail at each terminal through the period
underneath a mostly clear sky and light winds. 

&&

.HUN WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
AL...None.
TN...None.
&&

$$

NEAR TERM...KTW
SHORT TERM....KTW
LONG TERM....KTW
AVIATION...AMP.24
