984 
FXUS65 KTFX 260213
AFDTFX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Great Falls MT
813 PM MDT Tue Oct 25 2022

.SYNOPSIS...

A west to northwest flow aloft continues across the Northern Rockies 
with variable clouds and few light snow showers mainly over the
mountains ending overnight. A weather disturbance moving 
southeast across Idaho Wednesday will bring a period of snow 
showers to Southwest Montana while much of north-central Montana 
remains dry. Very windy conditions are likely across especially 
north-central Montana late Wednesday night through Thursday night 
with strong winds likely along the Rocky Mountain Front and areas 
north of the Little Belts. 

&&

.UPDATE...

Right on cue, precipitation has diminished, with winds decreasing, 
as well. Inherited forecast is working well; therefore, no update is 
made, at this time. 
- Fogleman 

&&

.DISCUSSION...

A longwave upper level trough remains in place across the Western
US and Canada with satellite imagery showing a WNW flow with 
embedded moisture across the Northern Rockies and MT with a 
shortwave nearing the BC/WA coast this afternoon. Another strong 
North Pacific upper level jet is also noted upstream moving into 
the Gulf of AK. Weak instability has continued to produce some 
isolated snow showers this afternoon, mainly over the mountains, 
and this should decrease fairly quickly this evening as weak upper
ridging and some mid level drying translate across the area ahead
of the wave moving inland tonight. 

This system splits with the bulk of the energy moving SE across 
Idaho Wednesday, bringing a period of snow or snow showers mainly to 
western and SW MT. Short range models/ensembles are in good 
agreement with a 3-4 hr period of showers moving through areas 
mainly south of Helena and west of I-15 late Wed morning and Wed 
afternoon for areas of SW MT east of I-15. Satellite imagery 
indicates a fairly potent mid level cold pool with this system and 
at least weak instability is likely across SW MT tomorrow afternoon. 
This could lead to some brief but intense snow showers, especially 
across southern portions of Madison and Gallatin counties where mid-
late afternoon timing as most favorable for convection and some 
isolated lightning cannot be ruled out as well. Snow showers across 
SW MT end from W to E Wed afternoon/evening as the system exits 
across WY Wed night. Latest model guidance continues to limit 60% or 
better probabilities for snowfall amounts in excess of one inch 
Wed/Wed evening to the mountain areas in SW MT with amounts in 
excess of two inches limited to the higher elevations of the 
Beaverhead, Madison and Centennial ranges. 

The previously mentioned upper level system/jet currently moving 
into he Gulf of AK will move into western Canada Wednesday night 
with a belt fast westerly flow aloft sagging south into the Northern 
Rockies and MT late Wednesday night through Thursday night. 
50-60kt 700MB flow develops late Wednesday night across the 
Glacier Park/Rocky Mtn Front areas and expands across western 
portions of N-central MT by Thursday afternoon. A strong surface 
pressure gradient across the Rockies and favorable temp/wind 
profiles above ridgetops support strong wind gusts (in excess of 
60kts) along the Rocky Mtn front and across much of Glacier 
county late Wed night through Thursday with latest ensemble 
guidance maintaining likely (60-70%) probabilities for wind gusts 
in excess of 48kts across Cascade county Thurs/Thurs night. A high
wind watch continues for these areas with some potential for 
expansion to Judith Basin county and areas near the Bears Paw, 
though probabilistic guidance does not support higher winds in 
those areas at this time. 

Upper level jet moves off to the east late Friday with winds aloft 
relaxing and a period of less windy and dry conditions following 
through early Sunday. Temperatures look to warm back to near and 
slightly above climatological averages Friday through early next 
week with most locations seeing afternoon temperatures in the 50s to 
near 60 by Sunday. Longer range multi-model ensembles are in general 
agreement to bring a larger scale trough back into western Canada 
late this weekend with deeper troughing developing next week across 
the western US. This will initially bring an increase in winds as 
flow aloft re-intensifies late this weekend into early next week 
with probabilistic guidance indicating a high chance (>50%) for 
gusts in excess of 48kts late Sunday and Monday (Halloween) across 
western and SW portions of north-central MT. While the amplifying 
trough next week is largely supported by long range models, details 
in strength/timing are still less certain, however a turn back to 
below average temperatures with increasing potential for 
precipitation/snow appears likely by the middle of next week. 
Hoenisch

&&

.AVIATION...
620 PM MDT Tue Oct 25 2022 (26/00Z TAF period)

KCTB, KHVR, KGTF & KLWT:

VFR conditions continue throughout this TAF period.  

KHLN, KBZN & KEKS:

Expect VFR conditons at the onset of this TAF period. MVFR 
conditions are included in these TAFs from 26/15Z due to low 
visibility in rain/snow. 

All Airfields:

Mountain obscuration is expected. Periods of gusty winds are 
forecast at the onset of this aviation forecast, with gusty 
southeasterly winds through tomorrow morning at KEKS. Generally, 
winds decrease throughout this period. See link listed at the end of 
this aviation discussion for details on icing and turbulence. 
- Fogleman

KWYS TAF will not be issued again until airport operations resume 
next spring.

Refer to weather.gov/zlc for more detailed regional aviation 
weather and hazard information.

&&

.PRELIMINARY POINT TEMPS/POPS...
GTF  25  48  29  51 /   0  10   0   0 
CTB  21  46  29  47 /   0   0  10  10 
HLN  27  47  29  50 /   0  30  10   0 
BZN  24  44  19  46 /   0  40  10   0 
WYS  16  35   9  33 /  10  80  40   0 
DLN  22  38  16  42 /   0  60   0   0 
HVR  25  49  29  53 /   0   0   0   0 
LWT  23  47  24  48 /   0  10   0   0 

&&

.TFX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...

High Wind Watch in effect for the Rocky Mountain Front and 
adjacent foothills and plains from late Wednesday night through 
Friday morning.

High Wind Watch in effect for Cascade County below 5000ft and 
Eastern Glacier, Western Toole, and Central Pondera from Thursday
afternoon through Thursday evening.

&&

$$

http://www.weather.gov/greatfalls
