708 
FXUS65 KBOI 261621
AFDBOI

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Boise ID
1021 AM MDT Wed Oct 26 2022

.DISCUSSION...Water vapor satellite pics showing the center of a 
cold upper low tracking through SE Oregon this morning. Much of
the precipitation development is on the north and east side of the 
low center. While lower elevations have seen little precipitation 
so far, the west-central Idaho have tapped into some heavier 
amounts with snowfall 4-4500 feet. As the low center digs 
southeast today steadier precipitation will scatter out, with 
further shower development focused over the mountains, though 
valleys keep a slight chance of rain/graupel showers. Winds will 
ramp up this afternoon over open terrain as stronger winds aloft 
mix to the surface. Have updated forecast snow amounts for the 
rest of this morning across the mountains. 

&&

.AVIATION...Areas of MVFR/local IFR and mountain obscuration in 
rain/snow mainly in SW ID and Baker County, OR through 26/21Z.
Areas of LLWS are possible through 26/18Z. Snow levels will be 
around 3500- 4500 feet MSL. Surface winds: W-NW 10-20 kt with 
gusts to 30 kt through 27/00Z, then calming to variable less than 
10 kt. Winds aloft at 10k ft: W-NW 15-30 kt.

&&

.PREV DISCUSSION...
SHORT TERM...Today through Friday night...Satellite shows a well
defined low pressure over Western Oregon/Washington this morning.
Isolated showers thus far ahead of this system however, coverage
should increase, especially across the West Central and Boise
mountains later this morning as the low center reaches the
forecast area. This mornings guidance has lower precipitation
amounts but do expect measurable precipitation across the much of
the forecast area by 12z. Snow levels start out between 4000-5000
feet but should lower to around 3500 feet with the passage of the
low this afternoon. Gusty winds and isolated rain/graupel showers
follow the frontal passage later this morning. Winds will be
strongest along the Nevada border and Snake River Plain today.
Active diminishes by sunset with high pressure building in from
the west. This will bring dry conditions and allow temperatures 
to warm back to normal Thursday into Friday. A weak trough passage
Friday weakens the ridge but doesn't have any moisture for 
precipitation. 

LONG TERM...Saturday through Wednesday...Zonal flow aloft will 
develop Saturday and a weak short wave will pass by to the north, 
bringing a slight chance of showers to mainly the northern 
mountains. Upper flow becomes just north of zonal Saturday night 
through Sunday night, and increases in speed before becoming zonal 
Monday. A slight chance of showers will continue in the northern 
mountains through Sunday, before spreading south Sunday night and 
Monday to cover the entire area. Snow levels will range from 7000 ft 
north to 8000 ft south Monday morning. An upper trough will dig into 
the PacNW Monday night and Tuesday, sending an initial short wave 
and cold front through the area Tuesday. The chance of rain/snow 
continues Tuesday into Wednesday with snow levels falling to a range 
of 4000 ft north to 6000 ft south Tuesday, and then 3000 ft north to 
5000 ft south Wednesday. Models differ, as usual, on the exact 
timing of features by Tuesday, but confidence is high in 
precipitation and a trend toward colder temperatures.

&&

.BOI WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
ID...None.
OR...None.

&&

$$

www.weather.gov/Boise
www.facebook.com/NWSBoise
www.twitter.com/NWSBoise

DISCUSSION...DG
AVIATION.....SA
PREV SHORT TERM...JDS
PREV LONG TERM....SP
