252 
FXUS65 KBOI 261945
AFDBOI

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Boise ID
145 PM MDT Wed Oct 26 2022

.SHORT TERM...Tonight through Friday night...An exiting upper
trough and unstable air mass will support rain/snow showers and 
gusty winds to 40 mph through sunset. Any additional snow
accumulation in the mountains will be light and localized. This
will be the last system to impact the region in the short term as
a flat upper ridge builds in on Thursday, transitioning to a more
zonal flow on Friday. While precipitation remains to the north of
the region, moisture aloft will bring periods of cloud cover.
Temperatures will moderate under this pattern warming to near
normal on Friday.


.LONG TERM...Saturday through Wednesday...Models still depict a
weak shortwave trough moving in on Saturday, which could bring 
isolated showers and slightly cooler temperatures to the region 
during the day. A weak ridge will build in from the southwest on 
Sunday, bringing dry conditions with slightly warmer temperatures 
through Monday afternoon. A deep trough will move into the region 
late Monday with widespread precipitation and cooler temperatures 
through Wednesday. The extent of precipitation and timing is 
dependent on the depth of the trough through early next week. The 
GFS model depiction brings a cut-off low through the region, while
the other deterministic models keep the trough slightly more 
shallow. This difference creates the most uncertainty for early 
next week's forecast. Ensemble model outputs also reflect 
variation in the depth of the trough, which account for the 
uncertainty in precipitation and temperature forecasts for next 
week. Generally, all models show periods of mountain snow and 
valley rain through Wednesday with snow levels dropping from 
6000-7000 feet MSL Monday to 3500-4500 feet MSL late Tuesday.

&&

.AVIATION...Areas of MVFR/local IFR and mountain obscuration in 
rain/snow mainly in SW ID and Baker County, OR through 26/21Z.
Areas of LLWS are possible through 26/18Z. Snow levels will be 
around 3500- 4500 feet MSL. Surface winds: W-NW 10-20 kt with 
gusts to 35 kt through 27/00Z, then calming to variable less than 
10 kt. Winds aloft at 10k ft: W-NW 15-30 kt. 

&&


.BOI WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
ID...None.
OR...None.

&&

$$

www.weather.gov/Boise
www.facebook.com/NWSBoise
www.twitter.com/NWSBoise

SHORT TERM...DG
LONG TERM....SA
AVIATION.....SA
