149 
FXUS65 KBOI 260846
AFDBOI

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Boise ID
246 AM MDT Wed Oct 26 2022

.SHORT TERM...Today through Friday night...Satellite shows a well
defined low pressure over Western Oregon/Washington this morning.
Isolated showers thus far ahead of this system however, coverage
should increase, especially across the West Central and Boise
mountains later this morning as the low center reaches the
forecast area. This mornings guidance has lower precipitation
amounts but do expect measurable precipitation across the much of
the forecast area by 12z. Snow levels start out between 4000-5000
feet but should lower to around 3500 feet with the passage of the
low this afternoon. Gusty winds and isolated rain/graupel showers
follow the frontal passage later this morning. Winds will be
strongest along the Nevada border and Snake River Plain today.
Active diminishes by sunset with high pressure building in from
the west. This will bring dry conditions and allow temperatures 
to warm back to normal Thursday into Friday. A weak trough passage
Friday weakens the ridge but doesn't have any moisture for 
precipitation. 

.LONG TERM...Saturday through Wednesday...Zonal flow aloft will 
develop Saturday and a weak short wave will pass by to the north, 
bringing a slight chance of showers to mainly the northern 
mountains. Upper flow becomes just north of zonal Saturday night 
through Sunday night, and increases in speed before becoming zonal 
Monday. A slight chance of showers will continue in the northern 
mountains through Sunday, before spreading south Sunday night and 
Monday to cover the entire area. Snow levels will range from 7000 ft 
north to 8000 ft south Monday morning. An upper trough will dig into 
the PacNW Monday night and Tuesday, sending an initial short wave 
and cold front through the area Tuesday. The chance of rain/snow 
continues Tuesday into Wednesday with snow levels falling to a range 
of 4000 ft north to 6000 ft south Tuesday, and then 3000 ft north to 
5000 ft south Wednesday. Models differ, as usual, on the exact 
timing of features by Tuesday, but confidence is high in 
precipitation and a trend toward colder temperatures.

&&

.AVIATION...A cold front will move through this morning, reaching
KBKE around 12Z, KBOI around 15Z, and KMYL/KJER around 14Z. We will 
see areas of MVFR/local IFR and mountain obscuration in rain/snow in 
the KBKE area and central Idaho mountains through 26/18Z. We will 
also see areas of MVFR in rain from KONO southeast through KBOI to 
KMUO, and in rain/snow near KTWF/KJER, all through 26/18Z. Areas of 
LLWS are possible through 26/18Z. Surface winds: Mainly southeast 10 
kt or less ahead of the front, becoming northwest and increasing 
after 26/09z to 10-20 kt in southeast Oregon and the higher terrain 
of southwest Idaho, then 15-25 kt across most of the area after 
26/15z. Winds aloft at 10k ft: W-NW 15-30 kt. 

&&

.BOI WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
ID...None.
OR...None.

&&

$$

www.weather.gov/Boise
www.facebook.com/NWSBoise
www.twitter.com/NWSBoise

SHORT TERM...JDS
LONG TERM....SP
AVIATION.....SP
