756 
FXUS65 KBOI 260249
AFDBOI

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Boise ID
849 PM MDT Tue Oct 25 2022

.DISCUSSION...The shortwave trough moving through the Pacific
Northwest is on track to bring breezy winds, cooler temperatures,
mountain snow, and valley rain later tonight into the early 
morning. Snowfall accumulations still look close to 4-6 inches for
locations above 6000 feet MSL and 1-2 inches above 4500 feet MSL.
Precipitation amounts below 4000 feet MSL look to be less than a 
tenth of an inch. A ridge will build in from the southwest late 
Wednesday evening, keeping the region dry while elevating 
temperatures back to near normal through the rest of the short 
term. No updates necessary to the forecast.

&&

.AVIATION...Areas of MVFR/local IFR and mountain obscuration in 
rain/snow in the KBKE area and central Idaho mountains late tonight 
through Wednesday morning. Otherwise mainly VFR. Areas of LLWS late 
tonight through Wednesday morning. Surface winds: W-NW 10 kt or 
less, increasing after 26/09z to 10-20 kt in southeast Oregon and 
the higher terrain of southwest Idaho, then 15-25 kt across most of 
the area after 26/15z. Winds aloft at 10k ft: W-SW 15-30 kt. 


&&

.PREV DISCUSSION...
SHORT TERM...Tonight through Thursday night...A digging shortwave
trough approaching the Pac NW coast will move through the region
on Wednesday. Tonight will see increasing clouds with
precipitation filling in from NW to SE early Wednesday morning. 
Southwest flow aloft, along with a stable air mass preceding the 
trough will limit precipitation amounts at lower elevations to 
less than 0.10 inches. Snow levels are around 4500 feet for this 
event resulting in 1-3 inches in mountain valleys. The heaviest 
snowfall will be above 6000 feet where 4-8 inches is expected. The
bulk of the rain/snow will fall before sunrise, scattering out
through the morning at lower elevations. In the mountains,
afternoon instability will support shower development through the
day. Northwest flow aloft will mix to the surface, bringing gusty
winds to 35 mph across open terrain of SE Oregon and SW Idaho 
Wednesday afternoon. We see a return to dry weather starting 
Wednesday night as a flat upper ridge builds over the region. 
Temperatures will be around 10 degrees below normal through 
Thursday.

LONG TERM...Friday through Tuesday...An active, quasi-zonal flow
regime will persist across the Pacific Northwest, with minor 
embedded shortwaves quickly traversing eastward across the 
Northwest CONUS. Over the weekend, the atmosphere will remain dry 
enough to generally preclude any precipitation chances, with only 
periods of cloudiness expected. A more significant wet period is 
anticipated to develop as early as Sunday and persist into next 
week as cold Arctic air spreads southward out of Alaska and 
western Canada. Still plenty of differences in model depictions of
how this pattern will evolve, but elevated precipitation chances 
will persist Sunday through Tuesday and beyond. Initially, 
temperature profiles will be warmer and support mostly rain across
lower elevations, while mountain snow is likely. The current 
official forecast highlights a more prolonged period of rain 
possible, but in reality there will be breaks in precipitation 
during this period that are currently difficult to determine the 
timing of.

&&

.BOI WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
ID...None.
OR...None.

&&

$$

www.weather.gov/Boise
www.facebook.com/NWSBoise
www.twitter.com/NWSBoise

DISCUSSION...SA
AVIATION.....JT
PREV SHORT TERM...DG
PREV LONG TERM....JR
