841 
FXUS65 KPIH 260257
AFDPIH

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Pocatello ID
857 PM MDT Tue Oct 25 2022

.UPDATE...

Updated forecast to lower overnight lows as temps have fallen
quickly this evening under clear skies. Expect clouds to arrive
overnight which should help insulate. Temps are a little closer to
the NBM forecast based on evening trends and timing the cloud
cover.

13

&&

.PREV DISCUSSION... /issued 238 PM MDT Tue Oct 25 2022/ 

SHORT TERM...Today through Wednesday. We'll stay mostly dry 
through the rest of today aside from some light precipitation
lingering in the eastern highlands with breezy conditions through
the Magic valley and Snake plain with gusts up to about 30mph 
until 8-9PM. Our next system starts to move in around midnight as 
snow begins in the Sawtooths and spreads south and eastward 
through the central mountains and across the rest of the state 
during the early morning hours. Models are hinting at the 
potential for a band of a rain/snow mix during the morning moving 
from west to east which could impact parts of I-86 and I-15 from 
7- 10AM. Temperatures will be hanging right around freezing or 
just above, which could limit snow and give more rain south of 
Blackfoot. Temperatures will be a couple of degrees cooler north 
of Blackfoot, which would lend themselves towards snow more than 
rain. Winds are going to be breezy at the time, but are expected 
to pick up post-front, which would help limit snow squall 
potential, but it is still worth watching and keeping in mind for 
the morning commute. While the ingredients are there, the 
uncertainty lies with whether or not they all come together at the
right time. The NAM and HRRR bring in another band of snow after 
4PM that will impact areas of the Snake Plain and eastern 
highlands, staying mainly north and east of the Pocatello area, 
though the HRRR wants to skirt the eastern edge of Pocatello. Most
of the snow, aside from some light showers in the higher 
elevations of the eastern highlands comes to an end shortly after 
midnight. The highest snow totals will generally be 4-6 inches in 
the Sawtooths, Big Holes, and Bear River Range with the rest of 
the mountains seeing 2-4 inches. Snow totals in the Snake Plain 
and Magic Valley will be below an inch with the NBM 4.1 WSUP 
viewer showing only a 15-25 percent chance of an inch of snow. The
wind is also going to be a player in the forecast. Went with 
gusts from the 90th percentile of NBM 4.1 and still had to bump 
them up slightly and am getting gusts between 30-35mph and 
sustained winds between 25- 30mph which is just below wind 
advisory criteria. That said, some localized areas within the 
south hills and Magic Valley have a 30-40 percent chance of seeing
isolated gusts closer to 40-45mph. Winds will be strongest 
between noon and 8PM on Wednesday before they begin to back off. 
Our weather begins to quiet down as we head into Thursday morning.
AMM

LONG TERM...Thursday through Tuesday. Upper ridge builds into the 
region behind departing shortwave Wednesday. Temperatures remain 
cold, but slowly moderate Friday into Saturday. Next Pacific trough 
slides south along Alaskan/BC coast by Saturday, with weak shortwave 
flattening ridge ahead of it by late Saturday. From there, solutions 
begin to deviate so there is still quite a bit of uncertainty 
through remainder of the period. Most solutions favor precipitation 
onset by Sunday afternoon across the central mountains, but slow to 
spread east. Ensemble clusters still show quite a split between a 
very shallow ridge and a flat trough across the region Sunday, but 
nearly all give way to the Pacific trough moving into the PacNW or 
across the Northern Rockies by Monday. NBM has trended slower as 
well, holding off on bulk of precipitation until Monday/Tuesday. 
From there, solutions remain consistent with valley rain/snow, 
mountain snow, and breezy to windy conditions. DMH

AVIATION...Weak late fall afternoon shallow convection still 
lingers across the eastern highlands impacting KDIJ this afternoon, 
but remainder of terminals remain VFR. Next system drops into the 
region late this evening, spreading light precipitation west to east 
through Wednesday morning associated with frontal boundary. Ceilings 
drop fairly rapidly with precipitation onset, and could temporarily 
drop to IFR/LIFR with any convective enhancement of bands associated 
with front. Precipitation should be all snow at KSUN/KDIJ, mixed at 
KIDA, potential mix at KPIH, and all rain at KBYI. Gusty winds 
associated with the front, and then in post-frontal environment 
Wednesday afternoon, could gust well over 30kts. DMH

&&

.PIH WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
None.
&&

$$
