801 
FXUS65 KPIH 261535
AFDPIH

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Pocatello ID
935 AM MDT Wed Oct 26 2022

.UPDATE...The front continues moving from west to east this
morning and is just passing through Pocatello as of 9:30AM. Winds
have been gusting to about 35mph as the front passes through and 
we are expecting a wet rain/snow mix with the front. As such, we 
have adjusted the forecast to include the potential for some light
snow accumulation, up to an inch. Also bumped up winds for this
afternoon and evening for sustained winds between 20-30mph and
gusts between 40-45mph, with the strongest gusts in the southern 
hills, Magic Valley, and Snake Plain. Our next update will likely
focus more on the uncertainty for any more snow in the Snake 
Plain area later this evening. AMM



&&


.PREV DISCUSSION... /issued 359 AM MDT Wed Oct 26 2022/ 

SHORT TERM...Today and Thursday
Light precipitation is occurring currently across our extreme
western borders out ahead of a cold front that will move through
our area from around 6 am to noon. Models continue to show a
rain/snow mix along I-86/I-15 from around 6 am to noon. The HREF
models do show a line of convective showers as the front moves
through this morning. There is a potential for a snow squall 
along this line. Stronger winds do still appear in the afternoon 
behind the frontal boundary. So, this lessens the likelihood for a
snow squall. The windiest areas still appear to be across our 
western areas this afternoon including the Southern Highlands and 
the Eastern Magic valley. The NBM model shows a 95 to 100 percent 
chance of winds of 24 mph across the Eastern Magic valley and the 
Southern Highlands. Most areas will be below 40 mph gusts, but 
there will some localized areas hit 40 mph. The mostly likely 
areas of 40 mph or greater are the ridge tops across the Southern 
Highlands and across I-84 by Idahome and Yale where downslope 
winds will gusts near 45 to 50 mph. A special weather statement 
has been issued for the Southern Highlands for winds and, to a 
lesser extent, for mountain snow. Snow of 2 to 4 inches in the 
mountains for the Southern Highlands is likely as well. The 
highest snow amounts will be across the Eastern Highlands. The 
Island Park area will see 2 to 4 inches of snow, the Big Holes 3 
to 6 inches, the Caribou Range 2 to 5 inches, and the Wasatch 
mountains around 4 to 7 inches. A special weather statement has 
been issued for these areas as well. Elsewhere, expect 1 to 3 
inches of snow in the mountains, mainly above 5 thousand feet. 
Also, the extreme western upper slopes of the Sawtooths could see 
up to 7 inches of snow. Late tonight into Thursday high pressure 
builds in across the area bringing light winds and clear skies. 
Patchy fog is likely, especially for valleys in the Central 
mountains, the Upper Snake plain, and the Island Park area. For 
those valley areas that haven't seen a hard freeze, a hard freeze 
of temperatures in upper teens to mid twenties is expected 
Thursday morning. Temperatures will be 8 to 12 degrees below 
normal today and Thursday. 
TW

LONG TERM...Friday through next Wednesday.
Hard freeze temperatures continue Friday morning under clear skies
and light winds due to high pressure. Upper level high pressure 
ridging then weakens by late Friday. A very weak wave moves 
through Saturday just bringing slightly elevated winds and partly 
to mostly cloudy skies. Expect dry conditions through Sunday. By 
Monday models are showing the next system. There continues to be 
varied model solutions but clusters and models have come more in 
line with bringing some type of upper level troughing. The GFS 
model brings moisture in zonal flow impacting the Sawtooths and 
the northern Eastern Highlands late Monday into Tuesday. Then late
Tuesday into Wednesday moist southwest flow sets up across the 
area. By late Wednesday into Thursday the GFS model takes an upper
level low across southern Nevada and southern Utah. The ECMWF 
model is drier overall with this system. It shows a cold 
front/troughing, not an upper level low, that impacts more of our 
northern areas from late Monday into Wednesday morning and lingers
with little precipitation through Thursday. Regardless of the 
exact solution, there will likely be valley rain/mountain snow and
breezy to windy conditions late Monday into Wednesday, possibly 
through Thursday. Temperatures will run just a few degrees below 
normal Friday through Monday before dropping 8 to 12 degrees below
normal by Wednesday. 
TW

AVIATION...
Strong cold front pushing through Idaho today will likely bring a 
period of snow at all sites this morning into early afternoon with a 
mix at BYI.  Expect a period of reduced visibility in the snow right 
after the cold frontal passage with under 3 miles expected at all 
sites other than BYI.  Expect snow to start around 12Z at SUN with 
around 15 to 17Z start times at PIH, IDA, BYI and DIJ.  Expect 15 to 
20 knot sustained winds at BYI, PIH and IDA late this morning into 
the afternoon with gusts 25 to 30 knots.  May get some more MVFR to 
IFR after 00Z in PIH, DIJ and IDA with stratus and light snow 
possibly continuing post 700 millibar trof passage.  
GK

FIRE WEATHER...
Will have a cold frontal passage today with very cold conditions and 
snow likely in most areas with areas of 20 mph sustained winds and 
gusts over 30 mph also expected.  Will have dry conditions Thursday 
through Saturday with warming through the period.  Beginning Monday 
will enter a wetter pattern with snow and rain expected next week 
with cool temperatures expected.  
GK

&&

.PIH WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
None.
&&

$$
