524 
FXUS65 KPIH 262001
AFDPIH

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Pocatello ID
201 PM MDT Wed Oct 26 2022

.SHORT TERM...Today through Thursday. The cold front is just 
about all the way through the eastern highlands this afternoon and
cooler air is moving in now along with our gusty winds. The band 
of precip with the front was our main push of snow with this 
system, but snow showers will still continue on and off through 
the afternoon and evening, especially up on the mountains. The NAM
and HRRR and both picking up on a convergence band of snow 
developing between Arco and Idaho Falls around 3-4PM and moving 
southeast before fizzling out around 10PM. The biggest impact from
this would be reduced visibility for anyone traveling on I-15 
between 6-9PM. At the same time, the wind will be starting to back
off which will decrease snow squall potential. With this quick 
burst of snow, up to about an inch is possible. The WSUP NBM 4.1 
is showing a 60-70 percent chance of over a tenth of an inch of 
snow between Pocatello and Idaho Falls by midnight. However, it 
only shows about a 5 percent chance of at least an inch. 
Precipitation looks to wrap up by midnight across the entire area 
and the highest snow totals by the end of this event are still 
expected to be up in the mountains. Event totals in the Sawtooths 
will be up to about 7 inches of snow, 4-6 inches in the Bear River
Range, 3-6 inches in the Big Holes, and about 2-4 inches for the 
rest of our mountains. The wind will still be blowing into the 
evening, too, with sustained winds between 20-30mph and gusts 
between 35-45mph. The strongest gusts will be in the South Hills 
and up through the Arco Desert and Snake Plain. Winds begin to 
back off around 8-9PM. Thanks to lighter winds overnight and 
moisture from today, patchy valley fog is expected to develop 
after midnight and continue through 8AM. Overall, Thursday will be
a much quieter weather day in comparison as ridging builds back 
in to the area. Some afternoon sunshine will help warm most of the
area back into the low to mid 40s, which is still well below 
average for this time of the year. AMM

.LONG TERM...Friday through Wednesday. Upper ridge remains in place 
Friday, then starts to flatten Saturday with passage of dry 
shortwave feature. Temperatures cool slightly in association with 
this feature. Models continue to trend slower with onset of 
precipitation associated with approaching Pacific trough. 
Ensemble clusters for Sunday favor generally a flat flow across 
the entirety of the Pacific northwest and northern Rockies. NBM 
introduces weak precipitation chances across portions of the 
central mountains Sunday night, spreading the moisture across the 
rest of East Idaho on Monday through the base of shallow active 
trough sliding inland along the Canada border. Flow remains nearly
zonal and unsettled behind this feature and ahead of next 
incoming Pacific trough. Only edits to the extended period were to
nudge winds higher for Monday- Wednesday in response to guidance 
trends. DMH


&&

.AVIATION...Cold front with attendant precipitation band has pushed almost 
completely through East Idaho early this afternoon, with showers 
developing in wrap-around air mass. Ceilings remain generally 
VFR/MVFR outside of the precipitation but IFR/LFR within the band 
and stronger showers. Winds remain gusty especially in clear 
pockets where deepest mixing can be realized. Showers and gusty 
winds continue into early evening, then second consolidated band 
of showers works out of central mountains through the Snake Plain 
for another round of snow. For the remainder of the night into 
early Thursday, expect gradual clearing with weakening winds. 
Skies should improve back to VFR most areas, though lower 
elevation areas could see stratus/fog development with IFR 
conditions. KDIJ would be the most likely location for this to 
occur overnight. DMH


&&

.PIH WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
None.
&&

$$
