393 
FXUS63 KABR 261750 AAC
AFDABR

Area Forecast Discussion...UPDATED
National Weather Service Aberdeen SD
1250 PM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

.UPDATE...
Issued at 1237 PM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

See below for an updated aviation discussion.

UPDATE Issued at 1058 AM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

Localized pockets of fog in the James and Big Sioux Valleys have 
all but dissipated, as winds have become southerly out ahead of 
an incoming low pressure system under sunny skies. The rest of the
forecast remains on track. 

UPDATE Issued at 639 AM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

Aviation discussion updated below for the 12Z TAFs.

&&

.SHORT TERM...(Today through Thursday Afternoon)
Issued at 314 AM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

Winds are light and variable across the area early this morning with 
surface high pressure in place. Temps are falling into the low to 
mid 20s in the coldest areas under mostly clear skies. Satellite 
imagery is showing some patchy fog over portions of north central 
SD. Various visibility guidance is showing this, and to some extent 
there appears to be potential later this morning in the Big Sioux 
valley. So, have added patchy fog to portions of the CWA for the 
morning hours.

For later today, expecting dry conditions as we await the approach 
of shortwave energy. Southerly winds will develop today with mild 
air aloft overspreading the area. Highs look to be a bit above 
normal again and leveraged some NBM75 flavor for highs once again. 
Mid and high level clouds will be increasing from the west/southwest 
during the afternoon hours.

Best precip chances appear to be during the overnight hours into 
Thursday morning. Quite a bit of spread in the hi-res guidance in 
regards to areal coverage of light rain tonight, and overall QPF is 
rather light. Fairly healthy low-level jet around 40 knots develops 
overnight, with the nose spreading from south central SD into east 
central SD by 12Z Thurs. This may be the focus for slightly higher 
rainfall chances, which is reflected in the forecast currently. 
Signals point to best precip chances during the day Thursday 
confined to the eastern CWA where the low-level jet resides at least 
for the morning hours.

.LONG TERM...(Thursday Evening through Tuesday)
Issued at 314 AM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

The long term looks to be pretty quiet. Once the trough moves out 
Thursday evening, a low amplitude ridge pattern develops and is the 
dominant feature for the period. This will bring dry, slightly above 
average air into the region. Deterministic models are showing high 
temperatures on Saturday between 60 and almost 70 for areas of east 
central SD. Some gusty winds are possible for east SD on Saturday 
ahead of an approaching trough. Sunday high temps will be a little 
lower as that area of weak low pressure works its way east. No 
precipitation is expected with this. Temperatures will recover to 
about the same as Saturday to start the work week. There is a slight 
chance (15-20%) for some precip Wednesday as some shortwave energy 
combines with 60% relative humidities in mid and low levels. These 
chances are primarily for north central and north eastern SD.

&&

.AVIATION...(For the 18Z TAFS through 18Z Thursday Afternoon)
Issued at 1237 PM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

Terminals KABR,KATY,KPIR,KMBG

Incoming low pressure will lead to increased mid to high cloud 
cover through tonight, as well as chances for light rain showers.
Rain showers may linger through the morning across northeastern
SD. MVFR ceilings are forecast to impact ATY by the late morning 
as well. 

&&

.ABR WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
SD...None.
MN...None.
&&

$$

UPDATE...Lueck
SHORT TERM...TMT
LONG TERM...KK
AVIATION...Lueck
