890 
FXUS63 KABR 261144 AAA
AFDABR

Area Forecast Discussion...UPDATED
National Weather Service Aberdeen SD
644 AM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

.UPDATE...
Issued at 639 AM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

Aviation discussion updated below for the 12Z TAFs.

&&

.SHORT TERM...(Today through Thursday Afternoon)
Issued at 314 AM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

Winds are light and variable across the area early this morning with 
surface high pressure in place. Temps are falling into the low to 
mid 20s in the coldest areas under mostly clear skies. Satellite 
imagery is showing some patchy fog over portions of north central 
SD. Various visibility guidance is showing this, and to some extent 
there appears to be potential later this morning in the Big Sioux 
valley. So, have added patchy fog to portions of the CWA for the 
morning hours.

For later today, expecting dry conditions as we await the approach 
of shortwave energy. Southerly winds will develop today with mild 
air aloft overspreading the area. Highs look to be a bit above 
normal again and leveraged some NBM75 flavor for highs once again. 
Mid and high level clouds will be increasing from the west/southwest 
during the afternoon hours.

Best precip chances appear to be during the overnight hours into 
Thursday morning. Quite a bit of spread in the hi-res guidance in 
regards to areal coverage of light rain tonight, and overall QPF is 
rather light. Fairly healthy low-level jet around 40 knots develops 
overnight, with the nose spreading from south central SD into east 
central SD by 12Z Thurs. This may be the focus for slightly higher 
rainfall chances, which is reflected in the forecast currently. 
Signals point to best precip chances during the day Thursday 
confined to the eastern CWA where the low-level jet resides at least 
for the morning hours.

.LONG TERM...(Thursday Evening through Tuesday)
Issued at 314 AM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

The long term looks to be pretty quiet. Once the trough moves out 
Thursday evening, a low amplitude ridge pattern develops and is the 
dominant feature for the period. This will bring dry, slightly above 
average air into the region. Deterministic models are showing high 
temperatures on Saturday between 60 and almost 70 for areas of east 
central SD. Some gusty winds are possible for east SD on Saturday 
ahead of an approaching trough. Sunday high temps will be a little 
lower as that area of weak low pressure works its way east. No 
precipitation is expected with this. Temperatures will recover to 
about the same as Saturday to start the work week. There is a slight 
chance (15-20%) for some precip Wednesday as some shortwave energy 
combines with 60% relative humidities in mid and low levels. These 
chances are primarily for north central and north eastern SD.

&&

.AVIATION...(For the 12Z TAFS through 12Z Thursday Morning)
Issued at 639 AM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

Terminals KABR,KATY,KPIR,KMBG

Patches of FG/BR affecting northeast SD early this morning and
around the KATY terminal. IFR VSBY/CIGs possible before burning
off after sunrise. Some potential for these conditions yet this
morning in KABR, but appearing less likely than KATY. Otherwise, 
expect VFR conditions through the TAF period once this morning fog
burns off. Areas of -RA will move northeast through the area 
tonight, but hard to pinpoint areal coverage and which terminals 
will be affected, so will include VC mention at this time. 
Conditions are forecast to remain VFR even within any areas of 
-RA.

&&

.ABR WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
SD...None.
MN...None.
&&

$$

UPDATE...TMT
SHORT TERM...TMT
LONG TERM...KK
AVIATION...TMT
