300 
FXUS63 KABR 262326 AAA
AFDABR

Area Forecast Discussion...UPDATED
National Weather Service Aberdeen SD
626 PM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

.UPDATE...
Issued at 623 PM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

The forecast remains on track this evening with some light shower
activity moving north into south central SD. So far, the hourly
pops are holding true. No major changes are planned. 

&&

.SHORT TERM...(This Evening through Thursday Night)
Issued at 334 PM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

Mostly clear skies are currently in place across much of 
northeastern SD, while cloud cover is on the increase across central 
SD in response to incoming shortwave energy. Light precipitation 
will spread from southwest to northeast this evening and tonight as 
well, and then linger through Thursday morning across the eastern 
CWA, supported by the shortwave and a ~30+ knot LLJ. Ptype is likely 
to be all rain given the warm thermal profiles, and amounts will be 
on the light side with just a 30 to 60% for a tenth of an inch of 
rain over a 24 hour period roughly along and southeast of a line 
from Wheaton to Miller to Kennebec. However, the HREF's 24-hr QPF 
ensemble localized probability-matched mean does indicate the 
potential for localized quarter inch amounts across east central SD 
(12z run has the bulls-eye at Clark County). Southerly winds will be 
strongest across the higher elevations of the Prairie Coteau during 
the morning and early evening with gusts over 30 mph, but grassland 
fire danger will only be moderate across the CWA due to higher RH. 
Temperatures on Thursday should be held in check by cloud cover 
near/along and east of the James River Valley with highs in the low 
50s. Mid-50s are forecast further west. 

By Thursday evening and overnight, a now cut-off low continues to 
dive south towards/across New Mexico and the Texas Panhandle, while 
the jet stream sets up north of the CWA. Fog may develop if winds 
become light enough in a weak sfc trough, but confidence is not high 
enough to include in the forecast at this time. Low temperatures 
drop into the mid 30s into Friday morning under partly cloudy to 
mostly clear skies.

.LONG TERM...(Friday through Wednesday)
Issued at 334 PM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

When the period opens on Friday, fast, mostly zonal flow aloft is 
noted across southern Canada. Over this region, weaker flow aloft is 
in play, with a low amplitude short-wave ridge covering the northern 
high plains and northern plains. The multi-model ensemble progs in 
the extended showcase generally zonal flow, or low amplitude swings 
between shortwave ridging and troffing through Monday. Then the 
general consensus in the ensembles is for a longwave trof to get 
carved out across the western CONUS/Rockies Tuesday/Wednesday, which 
would place this CWA under southwest flow aloft. Overall, there 
really isn't a threat for precipitation during the out periods. With 
the exception of a weak frontal passage over the weekend, which will 
switch the winds around to the northwest briefly, most of the 
extended forecast will showcase some form of westerly or southerly 
flow in the low levels. This should help keep temperatures running 
at or above normal for most, if not all, of the period.

&&

.AVIATION...(For the 00Z TAFS through 00Z Thursday Evening)
Issued at 623 PM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

Terminals KABR,KATY,KPIR,KMBG

VFR conditions are expected through Thursday morning with light
showers moving into and spreading across the region tonight. Some
MVFR cigs may encroach near KATY by the end of the period. 

&&

.ABR WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
SD...None.
MN...None.
&&

$$

UPDATE...Wise
SHORT TERM...Lueck
LONG TERM...Dorn
AVIATION...Wise
