831 
FXUS66 KMTR 260345
AFDMTR

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service San Francisco Bay Area
845 PM PDT Tue Oct 25 2022

.SYNOPSIS...Mostly clear skies tonight into Wednesday with
seasonal temperatures. No big weather changes Thursday and Friday
under high pressure. A weak front approaches Saturday with a
slight chance of North Bay light rain otherwise mainly dry
through the weekend.

&&

.DISCUSSION...as of 08:44 PM PDT Tuesday...

The going forecast is in good shape with no changes needed this
evening.

&&

.PREV DISCUSSION...as of 2:30 PM PDT Tuesday...A quiet Tuesday weather
wise across the Bay Area and NorCal as a few high clouds pass 
over the region. Afternoon temps running from the upper 50s at the
beaches with mainly 60s around the bay and some lower 70s well 
inland. Skies to remain mostly clear tonight with another chilly 
October night with lows mainly in the 40s though some upper 30s 
for interior valleys and lower 50s near the water.

Persistent but dry northwest wind flow continues on Weds keeping
temperatures near normal with plenty of sunshine.

High pressure rebuilds Thursday and Friday producing some light
northeast winds across the Napa hills but no real fire weather 
concerns at this time. 

Forecast uncertainty increases by Saturday afternoon/night as NBM
PoPs increase to around 20-30% across the North Bay as some
ensembles want to drag the remnants of a weak cold front across
NorCal. However the majority members keep the forecast dry.

Pattern remains energetic across the Pacific into early next week
with the PNA likely remaining negative, suggesting general
troughiness along the West Coast. A few members suggest rain
chances return towards the end of the month or early November
while other clusters suggest the main trough axis shifts eastward
over the Great Basin allowing high pressure to nose in with
possible offshore winds.

&&

.AVIATION...as of 4:35 PM PDT Tuesday...For the 00Z TAFs. VFR 
conditions through the TAF period. Satellite shows the marine 
layer is mixed out, therefore expect clear skies with some 
occasional high clouds. The main concern for this TAF package will
be winds. High confidence that the post-frontal N/NW winds will 
become light as we approach the night, with KSNS expecting to see 
low level wind shear (LLWS) from 500 AGL to 30 knots. Possibly 
LLWS for other North Bay areas but lower confidence. Moderate 
confidence on the timing of when breezier winds will return, but 
expect winds to become breezy for most TAF sites late tomorrow 
morning/early afternoon. 

Vicinity of KSFO...High confidence of VFR through the TAF period 
with mostly high clouds over the terminal along with moments of FEW 
low clouds tonight to tomorrow afternoon. Moderate confidence of 
gusty winds near 22Z tomorrow (will continue to monitor and amend if 
necessary), but expect 10-14 kts NW winds for most of the TAF 
period. 

KSFO Bridge Approach...Similar to SFO.

Monterey Bay...VFR conditions through the TAF period. Very low 
confidence of low cigs and low visibility for tomorrow morning, but 
may be possible due to 24 hour observation. High confidence of 
moderate onshore westerly winds this afternoon, which becomes 
lighter into the night with a return of moderate NW winds tomorrow 
morning. 

&&

.MARINE...as of 08:44 PM PDT Tuesday...Fresh to strong breezes are
expected across the local waters through mid week with gale-force
gusts expected in the outer waters and at the coastal jets. This
will result in building seas with wave heights up to 12 feet
possible in the outer waters. Winds and seas should diminish
towards late week before potentially increasing again by next
weekend.

&&

.MTR WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
     .Tday...SCA...SF Bay until 9 PM
             SCA...Pt Reyes to Pigeon Pt 0-10 nm until 9 PM
             SCA...Pt Pinos to Pt Piedras Blancas 0-10 nm until 9 PM
             SCA...Mry Bay until 3 AM
             SCA...Mry Bay from 3 PM
             SCA...Pt Arena to Pt Reyes 0-10 nm
             SCA...Pigeon Pt to Pt Pinos 0-10 nm
             SCA...Pt Arena to Pigeon Pt 10-60 nm
             SCA...Pigeon Pt to Pt Piedras Blancas 10-60 nm
             GLW...Pt Reyes to Pigeon Pt 0-10 nm until 3 AM
             GLW...Pt Pinos to Pt Piedras Blancas 0-10 nm

&&

$$

PUBLIC FORECAST: RW/SPM
AVIATION: SO
MARINE: SPM

Visit us at www.weather.gov/sanfrancisco

Follow us on Facebook, Twitter, and YouTube at:
www.facebook.com/nwsbayarea
www.twitter.com/nwsbayarea
www.youtube.com/nwsbayarea
