387 
FXUS66 KMTR 260528
AFDMTR

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service San Francisco Bay Area
1028 PM PDT Tue Oct 25 2022

.SYNOPSIS...Mostly clear skies tonight into Wednesday with
seasonal temperatures. No big weather changes Thursday and Friday
under high pressure. A weak front approaches Saturday with a
slight chance of North Bay light rain otherwise mainly dry
through the weekend.

&&

.DISCUSSION...as of 08:44 PM PDT Tuesday...

The going forecast is in good shape with no changes needed this
evening.

&&

.PREV DISCUSSION...as of 2:30 PM PDT Tuesday...A quiet Tuesday weather
wise across the Bay Area and NorCal as a few high clouds pass 
over the region. Afternoon temps running from the upper 50s at the
beaches with mainly 60s around the bay and some lower 70s well 
inland. Skies to remain mostly clear tonight with another chilly 
October night with lows mainly in the 40s though some upper 30s 
for interior valleys and lower 50s near the water.

Persistent but dry northwest wind flow continues on Weds keeping
temperatures near normal with plenty of sunshine.

High pressure rebuilds Thursday and Friday producing some light
northeast winds across the Napa hills but no real fire weather 
concerns at this time. 

Forecast uncertainty increases by Saturday afternoon/night as NBM
PoPs increase to around 20-30% across the North Bay as some
ensembles want to drag the remnants of a weak cold front across
NorCal. However the majority members keep the forecast dry.

Pattern remains energetic across the Pacific into early next week
with the PNA likely remaining negative, suggesting general
troughiness along the West Coast. A few members suggest rain
chances return towards the end of the month or early November
while other clusters suggest the main trough axis shifts eastward
over the Great Basin allowing high pressure to nose in with
possible offshore winds.

&&

.AVIATION...as of 10:30 PM PDT Tuesday...For the 06Z TAFs. VFR 
conditions through the TAF period across much of the area. Marine 
layer remains largely mixed out in a post-frontal environment this
evening. Slight chance for some stratus near the coast and around
the Monterey Bay region. Otherwise, most locations will remain 
free of low clouds through tonight and Wednesday morning. Winds 
remain relatively light overnight, increasing to another gusty (NW
@ 15-20 kts) afternoon Wednesday in favorable locations such as 
KSTS, KSFO, and KOAK.

Vicinity of KSFO...High confidence of VFR through the TAF period 
with mostly high clouds over the terminal along with occasional. 
Moderate confidence of gusty winds peaking around 22Z tomorrow, but 
expect 10-14 kts NW winds for most of the TAF period. 

KSFO Bridge Approach...Similar to SFO.

Monterey Bay...VFR conditions through much of the period. Low 
confidence of IFR cigs and low vis for Wednesday morning. Light 
onshore flow continues overnight, increasing Wednesday for a breezy 
afternoon at 10-15 kts.

&&

.MARINE...as of 08:44 PM PDT Tuesday...Fresh to strong breezes are
expected across the local waters through mid week with gale-force
gusts expected in the outer waters and at the coastal jets. This
will result in building seas with wave heights up to 12 feet
possible in the outer waters. Winds and seas should diminish
towards late week before potentially increasing again by next
weekend.

&&

.MTR WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
     .Tngt...SCA...Mry Bay until 3 AM
             SCA...Pt Arena to Pt Reyes 0-10 nm
             SCA...Pigeon Pt to Pt Pinos 0-10 nm
             SCA...Pt Arena to Pigeon Pt 10-60 nm
             SCA...Pigeon Pt to Pt Piedras Blancas 10-60 nm
             GLW...Pt Reyes to Pigeon Pt 0-10 nm until 3 AM
             GLW...Pt Pinos to Pt Piedras Blancas 0-10 nm

&&

$$

PUBLIC FORECAST: RW/SPM
AVIATION: SO/Behringer
MARINE: SPM

Visit us at www.weather.gov/sanfrancisco

Follow us on Facebook, Twitter, and YouTube at:
www.facebook.com/nwsbayarea
www.twitter.com/nwsbayarea
www.youtube.com/nwsbayarea
