654 
FXUS66 KMTR 261000
AFDMTR

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service San Francisco Bay Area
300 AM PDT Wed Oct 26 2022

.SYNOPSIS...Seasonably cool temperatures, mostly clear sky 
conditions and dry weather are forecast through the remainder of 
the week. Aside from a slight chance of light rain over the North 
Bay on Saturday, dry conditions are likely to persist through the 
weekend as well. 

&&

.DISCUSSION...as of 03:00 AM PDT Wednesday...Mainly clear sky 
conditions prevail early this morning in wake of yesterday's weak 
frontal passage. That said, a few low clouds have developed around
the Monterey Bay region where boundary layer moisture remains 
abundant. To the north, another approaching frontal boundary has 
brought some light rainfall to northern California. That front 
will continue to weaken as it approaches and then pushes across 
the region later today. As such, dry weather conditions are likely
to prevail across the Bay Area and Central Coast. 

Seasonably cool conditions will linger as a result with afternoon 
temperatures reaching into the upper 50s near the coast to mid/upper 
60s inland. Under mostly sunny conditions this afternoon, a few of 
the region's warmer spots may peak in the lower 70s. Breezy winds 
will once again impact the coast line, yet the strongest winds are 
likely to remain offshore out over the Pacific. As wind speeds 
diminish overnight, temperatures will cool into the upper 40s to 
near 50 at the coast and around the bays, low to mid 40s inland and 
potentially the upper 30s in the region's coldest, wind sheltered 
interior spots. 

A weak ridge will build in late in the week, yet temperatures will 
change very little day-to-day and remain near to slightly below 
seasonal averages. Thus, mild days with cool at times chilly 
overnights are likely to persist. For the upcoming weekend, both 
deterministic and ensemble guidance have converged on a more 
similar solution...mainly dry weather conditions. There does remain 
an outside chance of light precipitation reaching as far south as 
the North Bay as a weakening frontal boundary approaches from the 
north Saturday afternoon/evening. However, the trend has continued 
to keep the focus of any widespread precipitation well north of the 
region. 

Looking further out, the models continue to suggest the potential 
for precipitation across the Bay Area and Central Coast by the 
middle of next week. That said, confidence remains low at this time 
with respect to any widespread, beneficial rainfall across our 
region. However, the ensembles generally suggest an energetic 
pattern across the Pacific to persist with troughing along the West 
Coast heating into early November. 

&&

.AVIATION...as of 10:30 PM PDT Tuesday...For the 06Z TAFs. VFR 
conditions through the TAF period across much of the area. Marine 
layer remains largely mixed out in a post-frontal environment this
evening. Slight chance for some stratus near the coast and around
the Monterey Bay region. Otherwise, most locations will remain 
free of low clouds through tonight and Wednesday morning. Winds 
remain relatively light overnight, increasing to another gusty (NW
@ 15-20 kts) afternoon Wednesday in favorable locations such as 
KSTS, KSFO, and KOAK.

Vicinity of KSFO...High confidence of VFR through the TAF period 
with mostly high clouds over the terminal along with occasional. 
Moderate confidence of gusty winds peaking around 22Z tomorrow, but 
expect 10-14 kts NW winds for most of the TAF period. 

KSFO Bridge Approach...Similar to SFO.

Monterey Bay...VFR conditions through much of the period. Low 
confidence of IFR cigs and low vis for Wednesday morning. Light 
onshore flow continues overnight, increasing Wednesday for a breezy 
afternoon at 10-15 kts.

&&

.MARINE...as of 03:00 AM PDT Wednesday...Gusty conditions are 
expected across the local waters through mid week with gale-force 
gusts expected in the outer waters and at the coastal jets. This 
will result in building seas with wave heights up to 12 feet 
possible in the outer waters. Winds and seas are expected to 
diminish towards late week before potentially increasing again 
into the weekend.

&&

.MTR WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
     .Tday...SCA...Mry Bay until 3 AM
             SCA...Mry Bay from 3 PM
             SCA...Pt Arena to Pt Reyes 0-10 nm
             SCA...Pigeon Pt to Pt Pinos 0-10 nm
             SCA...Pt Arena to Pigeon Pt 10-60 nm
             SCA...Pigeon Pt to Pt Piedras Blancas 10-60 nm
             GLW...Pt Reyes to Pigeon Pt 0-10 nm until 3 AM
             SCA...Pt Reyes to Pigeon Pt 0-10 nm
             GLW...Pt Pinos to Pt Piedras Blancas 0-10 nm

&&

$$

PUBLIC FORECAST: RGass
AVIATION: SO/Behringer
MARINE: Behringer

Visit us at www.weather.gov/sanfrancisco

Follow us on Facebook, Twitter, and YouTube at:
www.facebook.com/nwsbayarea
www.twitter.com/nwsbayarea
www.youtube.com/nwsbayarea
