365 
FXUS66 KMTR 262015
AFDMTR

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service San Francisco Bay Area
115 PM PDT Wed Oct 26 2022

.SYNOPSIS...Clear with mild days and cool nights at least through
Friday. No big weather changes this weekend with mainly dry
weather forecast for any outside activities right through
Halloween. The ridge may begin to break down by Tuesday or
Wednesday with our next chance of rain.

&&

.DISCUSSION...as of 1:15 PM PDT Wednesday...Satellite shows 
mostly sunny skies with pleasant readings in the 60s and lower 70s
this afternoon, chamber of commerce weather for the locals and 
tourists alike. Not seeing much change in the sensible weather 
Thursday and Friday with mild days into the 60s and 70s with 
continued cool nights mainly in the 40s except upper 30 coldest 
interior valleys and around 50 in the City.

Time to start planning for the weekend with Halloween and outdoor
sport activities. Conditions continue to look quiet and ideal for
outdoor plans. If anything temps may warm a few degrees in warm
advection pattern but readings forecast to remain near normal for
afternoon highs. A little unusual to have no wind, fog or frost
concerns but we'll take the quiet pattern.  

Ensemble data still wants to show a 10-15% chance of some showers
up near Pt Arena on Saturday afternoon but the trend has clearly
been drier so the North Bay looks good for checking out the Napa
and Sonoma valleys this weekend.

Next question becomes the weather forecast for Halloween. Despite
our quiet weather the pattern is active across the Pacific and
into the Pacific Northwest. However, at this time all avaialable
data suggests that dry and seasonably mild weather continues into
Monday night (Halloween).

As usual by the time we get to the 6-7 day forecast, unertainity
increases. Having looked over all the 500 mb clusters and
ensembles there is increasing confidence for a West Coast trough
by around Weds of next week (Nov 2nd). At the very least high
confidence for below normal temps but will have to see how rain
chances evolve based upon the exact storm/trough axis/track. 
Those watching from home are seeing the wet gfs deterministic runs
while the Euro has the trough farther east with more wind and 
cold temps.

&&

.AVIATION...as of 11:06 AM PDT Wednesday...For the 18Z TAFs. VFR 
conditions prevail with satellite imagery showing SCT high clouds 
passing south of the Bay Area. Early morning stratus over Monterey
Bay has cleared. VFR will likely last through the TAF period for 
most, if not all, terminals as drier air settles into the region. 
Locally breezy conditions can be expected this afternoon along the
coast and through coastal gaps before easing tonight. Low end 
chances for LLWS tonight near interior North Bay terminals as 
northerly winds increase aloft over the Sacramento Valley. Not 
included in TAFs at this time but will be monitored.

Vicinity of KSFO...VFR likely persists through the TAF period, as
most clear skies prevail.  Light winds becoming WNW by early
afternoon with gusts to 25 kts by late afternoon. Winds ease
tonight.

KSFO Bridge Approach...Similar to SFO.

Monterey Bay...Expect VFR conditions to prevail through the
period, with slight chance of low clouds developing over coastal
terminals late tonight into the early morning. Since hi-res models
have been backing off this possibility, have included only FEW low
clouds towards the end of the TAF period. Moderate NW winds this
afternoon, easing tonight. 

&&

.MARINE...as of 12:40 PM PDT Wednesday...Increasing strong
northwest winds today with near gale- force  gusts expected over
much of the waters and gale- force gusts  likely along the Big Sur
coast. Elevated steep seas with wave  heights up to 12 feet are
possible in the outer waters. Winds and seas are expected to
diminish towards late week before  potentially increasing again
into the weekend.

&&

.MTR WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
     .Tngt...SCA...Mry Bay until 9 PM
             SCA...Pt Arena to Pt Reyes 0-10 nm until 3 AM
             SCA...Pt Reyes to Pigeon Pt 0-10 nm until 3 AM
             SCA...Pigeon Pt to Pt Pinos 0-10 nm until 3 AM
             SCA...Pt Arena to Pigeon Pt 10-60 nm until 3 AM
             SCA...Pigeon Pt to Pt Piedras Blancas 10-60 nm until 3 AM
             GLW...Pt Pinos to Pt Piedras Blancas 0-10 nm until 9 PM

&&

$$

PUBLIC FORECAST: RW
AVIATION: Lorber
MARINE: Lorber

Visit us at www.weather.gov/sanfrancisco

Follow us on Facebook, Twitter, and YouTube at:
www.facebook.com/nwsbayarea
www.twitter.com/nwsbayarea
www.youtube.com/nwsbayarea
