983 
FXUS66 KMTR 262331
AFDMTR

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service San Francisco Bay Area
431 PM PDT Wed Oct 26 2022

.SYNOPSIS...Clear with mild days and cool nights at least through
Friday. No big weather changes this weekend with mainly dry
weather forecast for any outside activities right through
Halloween. The ridge may begin to break down by Tuesday or
Wednesday with our next chance of rain.

&&

.DISCUSSION...as of 1:15 PM PDT Wednesday...Satellite shows 
mostly sunny skies with pleasant readings in the 60s and lower 70s
this afternoon, chamber of commerce weather for the locals and 
tourists alike. Not seeing much change in the sensible weather 
Thursday and Friday with mild days into the 60s and 70s with 
continued cool nights mainly in the 40s except upper 30 coldest 
interior valleys and around 50 in the City.

Time to start planning for the weekend with Halloween and outdoor
sport activities. Conditions continue to look quiet and ideal for
outdoor plans. If anything temps may warm a few degrees in warm
advection pattern but readings forecast to remain near normal for
afternoon highs. A little unusual to have no wind, fog or frost
concerns but we'll take the quiet pattern.  

Ensemble data still wants to show a 10-15% chance of some showers
up near Pt Arena on Saturday afternoon but the trend has clearly
been drier so the North Bay looks good for checking out the Napa
and Sonoma valleys this weekend.

Next question becomes the weather forecast for Halloween. Despite
our quiet weather the pattern is active across the Pacific and
into the Pacific Northwest. However, at this time all available
data suggests that dry and seasonably mild weather continues into 
Monday night (Halloween).

As usual by the time we get to the 6-7 day forecast, uncertainty
increases. Having looked over all the 500 mb clusters and 
ensembles there is increasing confidence for a West Coast trough 
by around Weds of next week (Nov 2nd). At the very least high 
confidence for below normal temps but will have to see how rain 
chances evolve based upon the exact storm/trough axis/track. Those
watching from home are seeing the wet gfs deterministic runs 
while the Euro has the trough farther east with more wind and cold
temps.

&&

.AVIATION...as of 04:31 PM PDT Wednesday...For the 00Z TAFs. No
major changes to the forecast. VFR conditions forecast to prevail
through the TAF period. Latest guidance still has increasing
northerly winds in the North Bay, around 25 knots, around 2000
feet AGL for about 3 hours after midnight. But remains below the
threshold for putting LLWS in the TAF at this time. A FEW mid
level clouds may pop up around the Monterey Bay early Thursday
morning, but otherwise only high clouds passing over the area.
Onshore winds will return Thursday afternoon and be breezy, but as
high pressure grows, winds will be weaker than today.

Vicinity of KSFO...VFR. Wind gusts up to 25 knots through 03Z,
diminishing into the evening. A weak seabreeze will return
Thursday afternoon.

KSFO Bridge Approach...Similar to SFO.

Monterey Bay...Low confidence in low clouds development overnight,
but left FEW in the TAF. Conditions will remain VFR through the
TAF period. Moderate NW winds with occasional gusts through 03Z.
Winds diminish afterwards. A weaker seabreeze returns Thursday 
afternoon.


&&

.MARINE...as of 02:45 PM PDT Wednesday...Strong northwest winds
through tonight with near gale-force gusts expected over much of 
the waters and gale-force gusts likely along the Big Sur coast. 
Elevated steep seas with wave heights up to 12 feet are possible 
in the outer waters, before diminishing Thursday into Friday. A 
mid- period northwest swell continues to spread through the waters
with another swell train arriving late Friday into Saturday.

&&

.MTR WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
     .Tngt...SCA...Mry Bay until 9 PM
             SCA...Pt Arena to Pt Reyes 0-10 nm until 3 AM
             SCA...Pt Reyes to Pigeon Pt 0-10 nm until 3 AM
             SCA...Pigeon Pt to Pt Pinos 0-10 nm until 3 AM
             GLW...Pt Pinos to Pt Piedras Blancas 0-10 nm until 9 PM
             SCA...Pt Arena to Pigeon Pt 10-60 nm
             SCA...Pigeon Pt to Pt Piedras Blancas 10-60 nm

&&

$$

PUBLIC FORECAST: RW
AVIATION: DK
MARINE: Lorber

Visit us at www.weather.gov/sanfrancisco

Follow us on Facebook, Twitter, and YouTube at:
www.facebook.com/nwsbayarea
www.twitter.com/nwsbayarea
www.youtube.com/nwsbayarea
