166 
FXUS66 KMTR 261545
AFDMTR

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service San Francisco Bay Area
845 AM PDT Wed Oct 26 2022

.SYNOPSIS...Seasonably cool temperatures, mostly clear sky 
conditions and dry weather are forecast through the remainder of 
the week. Aside from a slight chance of light rain over the North 
Bay on Saturday, dry conditions are likely to persist through the 
weekend and right through Halloween. Some long range hints of rain
chances returning by early November. 

&&

.DISCUSSION...as of 8:45 AM PDT Wednesday...No significant short 
term updates this morning. It was a chilly start for most areas 
with widespread 40s and even some upper 30s for the interior 
valleys of the Central Coast. The only fog/stratus is around Moss 
Landing and Watsonville and should mix out shortly while a band of
high clouds passing overhead revealed a nice sunrise.

Day over day changes in the weather will be minimal the rest of
the work week with seasonal October weather consisting of mostly
sunny skies with highs in the 60s and lower 70s followed by clear
and cool nights mainly in the 40s.

On Saturday a weak boundary may approach far NorCal but latest
models trends are weaker and less impressive with this system.
Latest ensemble PoPs are around 10-20% for far northern Sonoma on
Saturday afternoon. So no need to cancel outdoor plans with a
mainly dry and seasonal weekend in store as high pressure quickly
rebuilds Sunday.

Forecast focus then turns to Halloween and beyond. Latest cluster
analysis and ensemble guidance suggests dry conditions through
Monday night. Model trends are currently trending wetter for rain
chances about a week from now (next Weds) as an energetic jet 
sets up across the Pacific. Will be looking over the fresh set of 
12z data for the afternoon update as we focus on Halloween 
activities and rain chances for early November.

&&

.PREV DISCUSSION...as of 3:00 AM PDT Wednesday...Mainly clear sky
conditions prevail early this morning in wake of yesterday's weak
frontal passage. That said, a few low clouds have developed 
around the Monterey Bay region where boundary layer moisture 
remains abundant. To the north, another approaching frontal 
boundary has brought some light rainfall to northern California. 
That front will continue to weaken as it approaches and then 
pushes across the region later today. As such, dry weather 
conditions are likely to prevail across the Bay Area and Central 
Coast. 

Seasonably cool conditions will linger as a result with afternoon 
temperatures reaching into the upper 50s near the coast to mid/upper 
60s inland. Under mostly sunny conditions this afternoon, a few of 
the region's warmer spots may peak in the lower 70s. Breezy winds 
will once again impact the coast line, yet the strongest winds are 
likely to remain offshore out over the Pacific. As wind speeds 
diminish overnight, temperatures will cool into the upper 40s to 
near 50 at the coast and around the bays, low to mid 40s inland and 
potentially the upper 30s in the region's coldest, wind sheltered 
interior spots. 

A weak ridge will build in late in the week, yet temperatures will 
change very little day-to-day and remain near to slightly below 
seasonal averages. Thus, mild days with cool at times chilly 
overnights are likely to persist. For the upcoming weekend, both 
deterministic and ensemble guidance have converged on a more 
similar solution...mainly dry weather conditions. There does remain 
an outside chance of light precipitation reaching as far south as 
the North Bay as a weakening frontal boundary approaches from the 
north Saturday afternoon/evening. However, the trend has continued 
to keep the focus of any widespread precipitation well north of the 
region. 

Looking further out, the models continue to suggest the potential 
for precipitation across the Bay Area and Central Coast by the 
middle of next week. That said, confidence remains low at this time 
with respect to any widespread, beneficial rainfall across our 
region. However, the ensembles generally suggest an energetic 
pattern across the Pacific to persist with troughing along the West 
Coast heating into early November. 

&&

.AVIATION...as of 4:20 AM PDT Wednesday...For the 12Z TAFs. VFR 
likely through the TAF period as the atmosphere remains relatively 
well mixed. One exception will be some very isolated stratus around 
the Monterey Bay area this morning, and some possibility of marine 
stratus along the coast Thursday morning. Other than some passing 
mid-high clouds, skies will remain mostly clear today. Breezy 
condition can be expected this afternoon.

Vicinity of KSFO...VFR through the TAF period. Current satellite 
showing a few clouds but mostly clear skies around the Bay Area. 
Expect these conditions to persist through the day today with some 
passing high clouds late this morning. W/NW winds with gusts to 20 
kts can be expected this afternoon.

KSFO Bridge Approach...Similar to SFO.

Monterey Bay...Current satellite showing some isolated areas of 
stratus around the area with a low likelihood that coverage will 
expand much this morning. Expect VFR to prevail with periods of MVFR 
cigs before sunrise this morning. Mostly clear skies and breezy 
onshore flow for the rest of the period after.

&&

.MARINE...as of 08:27 AM PDT Wednesday...Gusty conditions are
expected across the local waters through mid week with gale-force
gusts expected in the outer waters and at  the coastal jets. This
will result in building seas with wave  heights up to 12 feet
possible in the outer waters. Winds and seas are expected to
diminish towards late week before potentially  increasing again
into the weekend.

&&

.MTR WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
     .Tday...SCA...Mry Bay from 3 PM
             SCA...Pt Arena to Pt Reyes 0-10 nm
             SCA...Pt Reyes to Pigeon Pt 0-10 nm
             SCA...Pigeon Pt to Pt Pinos 0-10 nm
             SCA...Pt Arena to Pigeon Pt 10-60 nm
             SCA...Pigeon Pt to Pt Piedras Blancas 10-60 nm
             GLW...Pt Pinos to Pt Piedras Blancas 0-10 nm

&&

$$

PUBLIC FORECAST: RW
AVIATION: Lorber
MARINE: Lorber

Visit us at www.weather.gov/sanfrancisco

Follow us on Facebook, Twitter, and YouTube at:
www.facebook.com/nwsbayarea
www.twitter.com/nwsbayarea
www.youtube.com/nwsbayarea
