109 
FXUS66 KMTR 261118
AFDMTR

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service San Francisco Bay Area
418 AM PDT Wed Oct 26 2022

.SYNOPSIS...Seasonably cool temperatures, mostly clear sky 
conditions and dry weather are forecast through the remainder of 
the week. Aside from a slight chance of light rain over the North 
Bay on Saturday, dry conditions are likely to persist through the 
weekend as well. 

&&

.DISCUSSION...as of 03:00 AM PDT Wednesday...Mainly clear sky 
conditions prevail early this morning in wake of yesterday's weak 
frontal passage. That said, a few low clouds have developed around
the Monterey Bay region where boundary layer moisture remains 
abundant. To the north, another approaching frontal boundary has 
brought some light rainfall to northern California. That front 
will continue to weaken as it approaches and then pushes across 
the region later today. As such, dry weather conditions are likely
to prevail across the Bay Area and Central Coast. 

Seasonably cool conditions will linger as a result with afternoon 
temperatures reaching into the upper 50s near the coast to mid/upper 
60s inland. Under mostly sunny conditions this afternoon, a few of 
the region's warmer spots may peak in the lower 70s. Breezy winds 
will once again impact the coast line, yet the strongest winds are 
likely to remain offshore out over the Pacific. As wind speeds 
diminish overnight, temperatures will cool into the upper 40s to 
near 50 at the coast and around the bays, low to mid 40s inland and 
potentially the upper 30s in the region's coldest, wind sheltered 
interior spots. 

A weak ridge will build in late in the week, yet temperatures will 
change very little day-to-day and remain near to slightly below 
seasonal averages. Thus, mild days with cool at times chilly 
overnights are likely to persist. For the upcoming weekend, both 
deterministic and ensemble guidance have converged on a more 
similar solution...mainly dry weather conditions. There does remain 
an outside chance of light precipitation reaching as far south as 
the North Bay as a weakening frontal boundary approaches from the 
north Saturday afternoon/evening. However, the trend has continued 
to keep the focus of any widespread precipitation well north of the 
region. 

Looking further out, the models continue to suggest the potential 
for precipitation across the Bay Area and Central Coast by the 
middle of next week. That said, confidence remains low at this time 
with respect to any widespread, beneficial rainfall across our 
region. However, the ensembles generally suggest an energetic 
pattern across the Pacific to persist with troughing along the West 
Coast heating into early November. 

&&

.AVIATION...as of 4:20 AM PDT Wednesday...For the 12Z TAFs. VFR 
likely through the TAF period as the atmosphere remains relatively 
well mixed. One exception will be some very isolated stratus around 
the Monterey Bay area this morning, and some possibility of marine 
stratus along the coast Thursday morning. Other than some passing 
mid-high clouds, skies will remain mostly clear today. Breezy 
condition can be expected this afternoon.

Vicinity of KSFO...VFR through the TAF period. Current satellite 
showing a few clouds but mostly clear skies around the Bay Area. 
Expect these conditions to persist through the day today with some 
passing high clouds late this morning. W/NW winds with gusts to 20 
kts can be expected this afternoon.

KSFO Bridge Approach...Similar to SFO.

Monterey Bay...Current satellite showing some isolated areas of 
stratus around the area with a low likelihood that coverage will 
expand much this morning. Expect VFR to prevail with periods of MVFR 
cigs before sunrise this morning. Mostly clear skies and breezy 
onshore flow for the rest of the period after.

&&

.MARINE...as of 03:00 AM PDT Wednesday...Gusty conditions are 
expected across the local waters through mid week with gale-force 
gusts expected in the outer waters and at the coastal jets. This 
will result in building seas with wave heights up to 12 feet 
possible in the outer waters. Winds and seas are expected to 
diminish towards late week before potentially increasing again 
into the weekend.

&&

.MTR WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
     .Tday...SCA...Mry Bay from 3 PM
             SCA...Pt Arena to Pt Reyes 0-10 nm
             SCA...Pt Reyes to Pigeon Pt 0-10 nm
             SCA...Pigeon Pt to Pt Pinos 0-10 nm
             SCA...Pt Arena to Pigeon Pt 10-60 nm
             SCA...Pigeon Pt to Pt Piedras Blancas 10-60 nm
             GLW...Pt Pinos to Pt Piedras Blancas 0-10 nm

&&

$$

PUBLIC FORECAST: RGass
AVIATION: Behringer
MARINE: Behringer

Visit us at www.weather.gov/sanfrancisco

Follow us on Facebook, Twitter, and YouTube at:
www.facebook.com/nwsbayarea
www.twitter.com/nwsbayarea
www.youtube.com/nwsbayarea
