367 
FXUS66 KSTO 260930
AFDSTO

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Sacramento CA
230 AM PDT Wed Oct 26 2022

.SYNOPSIS...
Dry weather this week. Breezy north wind in the Central Valley 
and adjacent foothills today. Temperatures remaining near to a 
little below average. Precipitation chances may return next week,
but confidence is low.

&&

.DISCUSSION...
Skies remain clear across the region except for a few high clouds
moving into the Sacramento Valley ahead of the next approaching 
short-wave moving into Oregon. Winds remain generally light ahead
of the system. Current temperatures are mostly in the mid 40s to
mid 50s across the Central Valley, except in the upper 50s to
lower 60s across the north end of the valley where north winds
have begun.

Dry weather will persist through the remainder of the week. North
winds will increase in the Central Valley this afternoon and
continue into Thursday as northerly surface gradient increases
behind the short-wave as it slides to the southeast. Gusts of 
20-25 mph will be possible. Surface gradient will become more 
northeast oriented tonight with local gusts up to 40 mph possible 
near windier spots on the foothills and west slopes of the Sierra.
The overall short duration of the offshore event and minimum RH 
of 15-25 percent (low, but not extremely low) preclude higher fire
weather concerns, but nevertheless, any sparks and open flames 
near grasses and light fuels should be avoided. Lighter winds
return later Thursday.

Temperatures will remain near to slightly below normal with upper
60s to mid 70s in the Valley and Delta, mid 60s to mid 70s in the
foothills, and upper 40s to upper 60s in the mountains.

&&

.EXTENDED DISCUSSION (Sunday THROUGH Wednesday)...
Ensembles and clusters support the idea of minimal precipitation 
chances through the weekend as ridging holds across the region. 
Precipitation chances increase early next week (though still 
relatively low - less than 50 percent) as ridging weakens. 
Clusters indicate considerable uncertainty in the strength and 
timing of the developing trough over the West next week, so 
confidence remains low in regards to precipitation chances and 
amounts. Stay tuned!

&&

.AVIATION...
VFR conditions next 24 hours. Northerly surface wind
gusts 15-25 kts in the Central Valley 18Z thru about 03Z 
Thursday.

&&

.STO WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...None.

&&

$$
