151 
FXUS66 KSTO 262215
AFDSTO

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Sacramento CA
315 PM PDT Wed Oct 26 2022

.SYNOPSIS...
Dry weather through the weekend. Breezy north wind in the Valley 
and adjacent foothills today through early tomorrow. Temperatures
remaining near to a little below average. Precipitation chances 
may return next week, but confidence is low.

&&

.DISCUSSION...
Visible satellite imagery shows mostly clear skies with only a 
few high clouds over Northern California this afternoon. Breezy
winds are being observed through the Valley today as a trough
deepens to our east, tightening surface pressure gradients. The
MFR-SAC gradient has been around +6 mb over the past few hours, 
resulting in northerly wind gusts around 20-30 mph. The east-west
gradient will tighten tonight into the early morning hours
tomorrow, and downslope winds in the Sierra foothills will 
increase with similar gusts, locally up to 40 mph in wind prone 
gaps and canyons.

Winds will decrease tomorrow with fairly benign weather expected
the rest of the week and through the weekend. Ensemble and NBM 
guidance has completely backed off on any precipitation in
interior Northern California this weekend, so dry weather will 
persist into early next week. Although today will be the coolest
day of the week, daytime temperatures will remain fairly similar
with only slight warming of a few degrees into the weekend. Expect
70s across the Valley, mid 60s to low 70s in the foothills, and 
40s to 60s in the mountains. -HEC

&&

.EXTENDED DISCUSSION (Sunday THROUGH Wednesday)...
Weak ridging over Northern California will allow temperatures to 
peak on Sunday with mid to upper 70s in the Valley, upper 60s to 
low 70s in the foothills, and 50s to 60s in the mountains. 
Ensemble guidance is indicating a trough could impact the West 
Coast next Tuesday into Wednesday. Cluster analysis shows good 
confidence in the formation of a trough, but differences remain in
the strength, track, and timing. If forecast remains on track 
with both the GFS and Euro ensemble means, the trough will deepen 
from the Gulf of Alaska into the Pacific Northwest and California,
bringing a chance of widespread rain and mountain snow and cooler
temperatures. Confidence remains low based on cluster differences
and how ensembles have recently been handling these troughs in 
the extended forecast, but stay tuned for updates as time 
progresses. -HEC 

&&

.AVIATION...
VFR conditions at TAF sites over the next 24 hours. Periods of 
northerly surface wind gusts up to 15-25 kts in the Valley through
about 12Z Thursday.

&&

.STO WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
None.

&&

$$
