359 
FXUS61 KOKX 261017
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
617 AM EDT Wed Oct 26 2022

.SYNOPSIS...
Low pressure approaches from the southeast this morning and 
passes to our east this afternoon. A cold front moves through 
late tonight. High pressure then builds into the area Thursday 
through the first half of the weekend. High pressure over the
area Saturday night will shift east farther into the Western 
Atlantic Sunday into Sunday night. Another low well offshore 
will approach the region. A frontal system will also be 
approaching from the west. The frontal system moves across the 
area early next week with the low staying offshore but 
continuing to travel northward in the Western Atlantic.

&&

.NEAR TERM /UNTIL 6 PM THIS EVENING/...
Forecast remains on track with only minor changes needed to
reflect current forecast. The Special Weather statement for
patchy dense fog has been extended until 10 am for all areas.
There is uncertainty with the actual timing that the fog will
lift, and could occur an hour or two later or earlier than 10
am.

Fog and clouds will continue this morning as abundant low level
moisture is trapped beneath an inversion. The fog will be patchy
dense in some areas and therefore, the Special Weather 
Statement continues until 6 am. It will likely need to be 
continued for a couple of more hours after that, until enough
heating lifts the fog, generally around 10 am, with conditions
improving before between 8 am and 10 am. Eastern areas will also
improve, but more slowly, and some guidance points to fog all
day across these areas. However, think the most likely scenario
is a transition to patchy fog for eastern Long Island and
southeast Connecticut. As for clouds, on average, there will be
more clouds than sun, though a few breaks are possible for
western sections as a weak area of low pressure or surface
trough passes east of the area. Western sections being farther
from this feature will breaks in the clouds first. 

Speaking of the weak low pressure, it will continue to aid in
streaming tropical moisture into the region this morning in the
form of showers for eastern Long Island and southeast
Connecticut. These showers will slowly trek westward. These
showers will be associated with locally moderate to briefly
heavy rain, and a thunderstorm is still possible as elevated
instability of 100 to 500 J/kg noted in the mean HREF. However,
no hydrologic problems are anticipated. 

A shortwave trough in the mid levels approaches from the west
late in the day along with its associated surface cold front. 
This will halt the progression of the showers farther westward 
this afternoon, and they should just lift north of the area. 

With a moist air mass in place, conditions will continue to be
humid for this time of year. A south to southwesterly flow sets
up this afternoon ahead of the approaching cold front, allowing
for above normal temperatures, with highs in the upper 60s to
lower 70s for a majority of the area.

&&

.SHORT TERM /6 PM THIS EVENING THROUGH SATURDAY/...
The mid level shortwave and surface cold front will continue to
approach from the west, and will move through late tonight. 
However, it looks to weaken as it moves through, so expecting a 
chance for showers for western areas, generally west of the 
Hudson River, and mainly dry conditions overnight tonight for 
all other areas.

There may be some patchy fog for eastern areas early tonight, 
and it may once again be patchy dense, but as the cold front 
moves through these areas, it will aid in drying out the lower 
levels with high pressure building in, generally by midnight or
thereafter. 

With the cold front moving through, cooler temperatures are
expected. Tonight will be cooler than Tuesday night, but still
above normal, with lows in the upper 40s to middle 50s. 

The cooling trend will continue Thursday into Friday, with cold
air advection getting underway more so for Friday than 
Thursday. Expect highs in the 60s on Thursday, with upper 50s 
forecast for Friday, and slightly warmer for Saturday as the 
surface high pushes off the New England coast

&&

.LONG TERM /SATURDAY NIGHT THROUGH TUESDAY/...
Mid levels exhibit area on western side of a large amplitude 
ridge Saturday night into Sunday with multiple embedded 
shortwaves traversing the local region for early next week.

Optimal radiational cooling conditions expected Saturday night so a 
wider variance of lows from interior and rural locations to within 
NYC. Some near freezing low temperatures forecast for Orange County 
NY.

Clouds increase on Sunday and flow becomes more easterly as high 
pressure departs to the Western Atlantic. Clouds further increase 
Sunday night with rain showers returning to the forecast. Low 
pressure well offshore begins to approach as well as a frontal 
system to the west. With continued easterly flow, expecting warmer 
min temperatures Sunday night, ranging mainly from the lower 40s to 
lower 50s.

Southerly branch of upper level jet intensifies and the jet streak 
starts to move in Monday into Tuesday of next week. Enhanced 
synoptic lift from the left front quad of the jet will be near the 
local area during this timeframe. Rain showers become likely on 
Monday afternoon and remain likely through early Tuesday morning. 
Chances for rain showers remain thereafter through early Tuesday 
evening. 

Potential for heavy rain at times for early next week. GFS showing 
layer precipitable waters of near 1.5 inches and at times some 
slightly negative Showalter Indices. Could even have an isolated 
thunderstorm, but confidence not high enough to put in forecast yet. 
There is a lot of uncertainty with wide variance on model 
precipitation forecasts and timing.

Airmass overall looks in the long range to be remaining milder than 
normal with highs and lows. Highs forecast mainly in the lower 60s 
on Sunday trend up to low to mid 60s for Monday and Tuesday.

&&

.AVIATION /10Z WEDNESDAY THROUGH SUNDAY/...
Offshore low pressure approaches today and then moves farther north 
towards Gulf of Maine tonight. A cold front will move across tonight 
as well.

Abundant low level moisture with a light SE-E flow 5 kts or less 
will keep low clouds and fog into this morning. Mainly LIFR to some 
VLIFR conditions expected into this morning. Just some marginal 
improvement expected this morning into this afternoon to IFR and 
eventually MVFR late this afternoon towards this evening. The wind 
direction at times will be variable but overall will become more of 
a S-SW flow around 5-6 kts. 

The flow will become more westerly behind the cold front tonight. 
The flow will not be too high, still near or slightly above 5 kts. 
Fog could redevelop east of NYC terminals so MVFR a higher 
possibility and perhaps even IFR to LIFR through the evening hours 
for these more eastern terminals.

There will be chances for rain showers at times which could actually 
temporarily improve visibilities in those locations that have fog. 
Confidence is low on timing and position of these showers though.

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty... 

Expect amendments for changes in flight cat which could be off by a 
few hours compared to TAF. Fluctuations quite possible between 
categories during the day today.

.OUTLOOK FOR 06Z THURSDAY THROUGH SUNDAY... 
.Late tonight...Becoming VFR. 
.Thursday...VFR. NW winds 10-15G20kt. 
.Friday...VFR. NE winds near 10 kt with gusts 15-20kt. 
.Saturday...VFR. 
.Sunday...VFR in the morning. MVFR or lower possible late at night 
with any showers. 

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
A Dense Fog Advisory continues through 10 am this morning  

Winds increase with the passing of a cold front tonight, but 
gusts stay around 15-20 kt, and waves may touch 5 ft across the 
outer ocean waters, but it is marginal and for the most part,
SCA conditions are not expected tonight.

Increasing northeasterly fetch likely brings 25-kt gusts to the
ocean waters on Friday, with seas building 4-7 ft during this 
time. Winds subside below SCA criteria Friday night, though seas
likely remain elevated near 5 ft on Saturday, and perhaps into 
Sunday as well. 

Non-ocean waters are expected to remain below SCA criteria
today through the weekend.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
Moderate to locally heavy showers, and an isolated thunderstorm, 
will move from east to west this morning associated with low 
pressure that approaching from the SE. PWATS increases to 1.75 
inches for the eastern half of the area and this is where the 
higher rainfall totals can be expected. However, outside of 
possible minor flooding in poor drainage areas, no widespread flooding
is expected. Average totals of up to a third of an inch is expected
across southern CT and Long Island, with locally higher amounts
under the heaviest showers. 

Overall, no widespread hydrologic impacts are expected through
early next week.

&&

.TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
Astronomical tides will be running high through today due to a 
new moon. Therefore for today's high tide cycle minor coastal 
flooding benchmarks may be approached or slightly exceeded 
across the south shore back bays of Nassau, Queens, and 
Fairfield, CT. Coastal flood statement is in effect 8AM to 11AM
this morning across the South Shore Back Bays of Long Island and
between 11AM to 2PM today for Southern Fairfield CT coastline. 

A ENE swell begins to increase into Friday. With increasing
swell energy despite an offshore wind preceding the swell 
increase, minor coastal flood benchmarks may again be approached
for the Friday and Saturday daytime high tides for the same 
locations as well as northward facing shorelines of Western Long
Island.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...Dense Fog Advisory until 11 AM EDT this morning for ANZ331-332-
     335-338-340-345-350-353-355.

&&

$$
SYNOPSIS...JM/JP
NEAR TERM...JP
SHORT TERM...JP
LONG TERM...JM
AVIATION...JM
MARINE...JM/JP
HYDROLOGY...JM/JP
TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
