271 
FXUS61 KOKX 262206
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
606 PM EDT Wed Oct 26 2022

.SYNOPSIS...
A cold front moves through and passes to the east tonight. High 
pressure then builds into the area through the late week. High
pressure builds in from the northwest on Friday and remains in 
place through the first half of the weekend. As low pressure 
approaches from the southeast, aforementioned high pressure will
weaken and shift offshore late Saturday through Sunday. A 
weakening frontal system also approaches from the west early 
next week.

&&

.NEAR TERM /UNTIL 6 AM THURSDAY MORNING/...
Light showers can be seen moving through western portions of the
area. Slight adjustments were made to capture latest obs and
trends. Otherwise, a cold front swings through this evening, 
and is progged to get into the vicinity of the metro towards 
0-1z. With just a hint of (very little) instability cannot 
completely rule out a rumble of thunder further inland early on,
although guidance is not bullish. Expect a line of showers 
moving through early this evening across far NW and maybe far N 
zones. The front should go through mainly dry across much of 
the area. A SW breeze kicks up immediately behind the front. As 
the night wears on the winds will continue to veer and 
eventually become more NW towards morning. Gradual clearing 
early on will give way to more pronounce clearing after 6-7z. 
The most noticeable thing will be the drop in humidity, 
especially after 4 to 7z. Dew points eventually gets well down 
into the 50s for the pre- dawn hours, and some mid 40s dewpoints
across Orange County by sunrise. Look for min temps to average 
above normal with mostly lower and middle 50s across the area.

&&

.SHORT TERM /6 AM THURSDAY MORNING THROUGH THURSDAY NIGHT/...
A NW wind will be a bit gusty at times on Thursday with strong 
mixing with a good deal of sunshine. Temperatures will be cooler, 
but will still actually average around 5 degrees above normal 
with mostly middle 60s by the afternoon. Overall went close to 
the NBM, with some areas a degree or two warmer than the 
consensus guidance.

As the high continues to build Thursday night look for clear skies 
and lighter winds overall as the winds become more northerly. 
The winds should stay up enough in most area to preclude strong 
radiational cooling. Min temps will range from mostly the upper 
30s well north, to the lower and middle 40s for the metro and 
much of the coast. This is much closer to normal for this time 
of year after the last few mild nights.

&&

.LONG TERM /FRIDAY THROUGH WEDNESDAY/...
The area remains under a mid-level ridge Friday through the weekend. 
At the surface, high pressure builds in from the northwest on Friday 
and remains in place through Saturday centered to our north. Late 
Saturday through Sunday, the high will gradually weaken and shift 
offshore into the Western Atlantic. During this same time frame, 
global guidance continues to show a subtropical low forming well to 
our south, east of the Carolinas. With the orientation of the high 
to our north and low to our south, we will have several days of an 
easterly flow. The area remains dry Friday through Sunday day. Highs 
will be right around normal, with a slight warmup through Sunday.

Guidance begins to disagree with the handling of aforementioned low 
pressure as it approaches from the southeast late Sunday into 
Monday. However, there is decent agreement on tropical moisture 
entering the region as a result of a southerly flow from high 
pressure shifting off into the Western Atlantic. At the same time, a 
shortwave trough and weakening associated surface low approach from 
the west. In the upper levels, a jet streak will approach, putting 
the area in the left exit region which will enhance lift Monday 
night into Tuesday. Slight chance of showers starts late Sunday 
evening into Sunday night and chances of showers increase through 
Monday night, becoming likely by Monday afternoon. Confidence 
decreases Tuesday and Wednesday, but lingering showers are possible 
and have kept slight chance to chance PoPs on both days.

&&

.AVIATION /22Z WEDNESDAY THROUGH MONDAY/...
A cold front approaches the terminals from the west this evening
and passes to the east overnight.

Conditions are generally improving with a developing SW flow 
with VFR, occasionally MVFR/IFR, for the NYC and Lower Hudson 
Valley terminals. However, the eastern terminals will be slower 
to improve, in particular KGON, which may stay IFR/LIFR until 
the cold frontal passage later tonight. 

Spotty showers are possible along and ahead of the cold front.

Winds will gradually veer around to the SW at less than 10 kt
this afternoon, then become more westerly behind the cold front
tonight. NW winds increase to around 10 kt towards daybreak 
Thursday, then increase to 12-15kt G20-25kt after 12Z. 

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty... 

Low chance of IFR ceilings coming in off the ocean at KJFK and
KISP continuing past 00Z.

.OUTLOOK FOR 18Z THURSDAY THROUGH MONDAY... 
.Thursday Afternoon...VFR. NNW winds 10-15G20KT. 
.Friday...VFR. NE winds near 10 kt with gusts 15-20KT. 
.Saturday...VFR. 
.Sunday...Mainly VFR. Chance of MVFR late.
.Sunday Night-Monday...MVFR or lower with a chance of showers.


Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
A Dense Fog Advisory is now in effect for the eastern Ocean
Zone, eastern Sound and Peconic and Gardiner Bays due to areas
of dense fog with less than 1 NM visibilities. A Marine Weather
Statement is still in effect for the waters just west of there
for patchy dense fog.

Any fog over the waters dissipates with the passage of a cold 
front tonight. A SW wind becomes more NW late at night and into
Thursday morning behind a cold front. NW winds will gust at 
times into Thursday with marginal small craft conditions for the
western ocean, with more persistent small craft conditions 
likely for the eastern two ocean zones. Thus, a small craft 
advisory has been issued for the central and eastern ocean. At 
some point a small craft advisory may need to be issued for the 
western ocean as well, especially by later Thursday into 
Thursday night with the greater potential for some 5 ft seas and
25 kt gusts. Wind gusts remain 20-25 kt through the first half 
of Friday on the ocean waters. By the the afternoon the gusts 
will likely fall below SCA criteria, but waves will remain 4-6 
ft possibly through early Saturday. Waves could then increase to
5 ft again by early next week.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
No hydrologic impacts are expected at this time through early 
next week.

&&

.TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
A ENE fetch begins to increase into Friday. With increasing 
swell energy despite an offshore wind preceding the swell 
increase, minor coastal flood benchmarks may again be approached
for the Friday and Saturday daytime high tides for the same 
locations as well as northward facing shorelines of Western Long
Island.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...Dense Fog Advisory until midnight EDT tonight for ANZ332-340-
     350.
     Small Craft Advisory from 6 AM Thursday to 6 AM EDT Friday for 
     ANZ350-353.

&&

$$
SYNOPSIS...JE/JT
NEAR TERM...JE/JT
SHORT TERM...JE
LONG TERM...JT
AVIATION...DW/DBR
MARINE...JE/JT
HYDROLOGY...JE/JT
TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
