501 
FXUS61 KOKX 261520
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
1120 AM EDT Wed Oct 26 2022

.SYNOPSIS...
Low pressure approaches from the southeast this morning and 
passes to our east this afternoon. A cold front moves through 
late tonight. High pressure then builds into the area Thursday 
through the first half of the weekend. High pressure over the
area Saturday night will shift east farther into the Western 
Atlantic Sunday into Sunday night. Another low well offshore 
will approach the region. A frontal system will also be 
approaching from the west. The frontal system moves across the 
area early next week with the low staying offshore but 
continuing to travel northward in the Western Atlantic.

&&

.NEAR TERM /UNTIL 6 PM THIS EVENING/...
Forecast remains on track with only minor changes needed to
reflect current forecast. The Special Weather statement for
patchy dense fog has been extended until mid day for most 
areas, with the exception being far NW zones where low visibilities
have been less prevalent. There is uncertainty with the actual 
timing that the fog will completely lift, and could occur an 
hour or two later or earlier than 12 pm.

Fog and clouds will continue through at least early this
afternoon as abundant low level moisture is trapped beneath an 
inversion. The fog will be patchy dense in some areas and 
otherwise visibilities will be around a mile or two. Until 
enough heating lifts the fog, generally at some point over the
next few hours, expect patches of fog and low clouds as some 
guidance points to fog all day across much of the area. 
However, think the most likely scenario is a transition to more
isolated patchy fog as the afternoon progresses. As for clouds,
we should be fairly blanketed, though a few breaks are possible
for western sections as a weak area of low pressure or surface 
trough passes east of the area. Western sections being farther 
from this feature may experience breaks. Any breaks in the
clouds across the area will be momentary.

Speaking of the weak low pressure, it will continue to aid in
streaming tropical moisture into the region ahead of an
approaching cold front in the form of showers, mainly for 
eastern Long Island and southeast Connecticut. These showers 
will slowly trek n-nw. The heavier showers should remain east of
the area, although far eastern areas could get clipped with a
brief heavier shower. 

A shortwave trough in the mid levels approaches from the west
late this afternoon along with its associated surface cold 
front with showers lifting north and northeast of the area. 

With a moist air mass in place, conditions will continue to be
humid for this time of year. A south to southwesterly flow sets
up this afternoon ahead of the approaching cold front, allowing
for above normal temperatures, with highs in the middle 60s to 
around 70.

&&

.SHORT TERM /6 PM THIS EVENING THROUGH SATURDAY/...
The mid level shortwave and surface cold front will continue to
approach from the west, and will move through late tonight. 
However, it looks to weaken as it moves through, so expecting a 
chance for showers for western areas, generally west of the 
Hudson River, and mainly dry conditions overnight tonight for 
all other areas.

There may be some patchy fog for eastern areas early tonight, 
and it may once again be patchy dense, but as the cold front 
moves through these areas, it will aid in drying out the lower 
levels with high pressure building in, generally by midnight or
thereafter. 

With the cold front moving through, cooler temperatures are
expected. Tonight will be cooler than Tuesday night, but still
above normal, with lows in the upper 40s to middle 50s. 

The cooling trend will continue Thursday into Friday, with cold
air advection getting underway more so for Friday than 
Thursday. Expect highs in the 60s on Thursday, with upper 50s 
forecast for Friday, and slightly warmer for Saturday as the 
surface high pushes off the New England coast

&&

.LONG TERM /SATURDAY NIGHT THROUGH TUESDAY/...
Mid levels exhibit area on western side of a large amplitude 
ridge Saturday night into Sunday with multiple embedded 
shortwaves traversing the local region for early next week.

Optimal radiational cooling conditions expected Saturday night so a 
wider variance of lows from interior and rural locations to within 
NYC. Some near freezing low temperatures forecast for Orange County 
NY.

Clouds increase on Sunday and flow becomes more easterly as high 
pressure departs to the Western Atlantic. Clouds further increase 
Sunday night with rain showers returning to the forecast. Low 
pressure well offshore begins to approach as well as a frontal 
system to the west. With continued easterly flow, expecting warmer 
min temperatures Sunday night, ranging mainly from the lower 40s to 
lower 50s.

Southerly branch of upper level jet intensifies and the jet streak 
starts to move in Monday into Tuesday of next week. Enhanced 
synoptic lift from the left front quad of the jet will be near the 
local area during this timeframe. Rain showers become likely on 
Monday afternoon and remain likely through early Tuesday morning. 
Chances for rain showers remain thereafter through early Tuesday 
evening. 

Potential for heavy rain at times for early next week. GFS showing 
layer precipitable waters of near 1.5 inches and at times some 
slightly negative Showalter Indices. Could even have an isolated 
thunderstorm, but confidence not high enough to put in forecast yet. 
There is a lot of uncertainty with wide variance on model 
precipitation forecasts and timing.

Airmass overall looks in the long range to be remaining milder than 
normal with highs and lows. Highs forecast mainly in the lower 60s 
on Sunday trend up to low to mid 60s for Monday and Tuesday.

&&

.AVIATION /15Z WEDNESDAY THROUGH SUNDAY/...
Low pressure will pass well east of the area today, while a cold
front approaches from the west. The front will move through the
area tonight.

Widespread LIFR/IFR conditions this morning will gradually
improve through the day, especially for the NYC and Lower 
Hudson Valley terminals. Eastern terminals will be slower to 
improve, in particular KGON, which may stay IFR/LIFR until the 
cold frontal passage tonight. VFR conditions develop around or 
shortly after the cold frontal passage for all terminals.

Spotty showers are possible today with the best chance along 
and ahead of the cold front.

Winds will gradually veer around to the SW at less than 10 kt
today, then become more westerly behind the cold front tonight.
The flow will remain light, still near or slightly above 5 kts.
Winds increase to near 10-12 kt towards early Thursday morning.
Fog could redevelop east of NYC terminals so MVFR a higher 
possibility and perhaps even IFR through the evening hours for 
these more eastern terminals.

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty... 

Improvement to MVFR and eventually VFR could be 1-2 hours 
faster than the latest TAFs. Amendments for changes in flight 
categories are likely through the day.

.OUTLOOK FOR 12Z THURSDAY THROUGH SUNDAY...  
.Thursday...VFR. NW winds 10-15G20KT. 
.Friday...VFR. NE winds near 10 kt with gusts 15-20KT. 
.Saturday...VFR. 
.Sunday...VFR in the morning. MVFR or lower possible late at night 
with any showers. 

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
A Dense Fog Advisory continues through 4 pm this afternoon. 

Winds increase with the passing of a cold front tonight, but 
gusts stay around 15-20 kt, and waves may touch 5 ft across the 
outer ocean waters, but it is marginal and for the most part,
SCA conditions are not expected tonight.

Increasing northeasterly fetch likely brings 25-kt gusts to the
ocean waters on Friday, with seas building 4-7 ft during this 
time. Winds subside below SCA criteria Friday night, though seas
likely remain elevated near 5 ft on Saturday, and perhaps into 
Sunday as well. 

Non-ocean waters are expected to remain below SCA criteria
today through the weekend.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
Overall, no widespread hydrologic impacts are expected through 
early next week.

&&

.TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
Astronomical tides will be running high through today due to a 
new moon. Therefore for today's high tide cycle minor coastal 
flooding benchmarks may be approached or slightly exceeded 
across the south shore back bays of Nassau, Queens, and 
Fairfield, CT. Coastal flood statement is in effect 8AM to 11AM
this morning across the South Shore Back Bays of Long Island and
between 11AM to 2PM today for Southern Fairfield CT coastline. 

A ENE swell begins to increase into Friday. With increasing
swell energy despite an offshore wind preceding the swell 
increase, minor coastal flood benchmarks may again be approached
for the Friday and Saturday daytime high tides for the same 
locations as well as northward facing shorelines of Western Long
Island.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...Dense Fog Advisory until 4 PM EDT this afternoon for ANZ331-
     332-335-338-340-345-350-353-355.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...JM/JP
NEAR TERM...JP/JE
SHORT TERM...JP
LONG TERM...JM
AVIATION...JM/DW
MARINE...JM/JP
HYDROLOGY...JM/JP
TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...//
