159 
FXUS61 KOKX 260620
AFDOKX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New York NY
220 AM EDT Wed Oct 26 2022

.SYNOPSIS...
Low pressure approaches from our southeast this evening through 
tonight and passes to our east Wednesday afternoon. A cold front 
moves through late Wednesday night. High pressure then builds 
into the area Thursday through the first half of the weekend. The 
high departs for the second half of the weekend, eventually giving
way to approaching low pressure from the south and west early 
next week.

&&

.NEAR TERM /UNTIL 6 AM THIS MORNING/...
Special Weather Statement continues for the entire area through
10Z to highlight the potential for reduced visibilities from 
patchy dense fog, with widespread visibility of 1 mile or less 
along the coast, and 2 miles or less inland. However, patchy 
dense fog is possible anywhere, but most likely along the coast.
Will continue to monitor for the potential for Dense Fog 
Advisory. 

Otherwise, forecast remains on track. Light rain showers
continue to stream in from the south over the south fork of 
Long Island and into southeastern Connecticut in conjunction 
with a weak surface low or trough south and east of the area. 
This area of showers will trek westward through the night. There
may be enough instability aloft, given MUCAPE values in some 
forecast soundings, for an isolated thunderstorm with these 
areas of showers.

The area remains on the western side of a large mid level ridge
with a shortwave trough approaching from the west. The warm 
front draped across our area earlier has now washed out. Surface
ridge axis, extending into our area from high pressure to our 
east, moves farther north slowly overnight as low pressure 
approaches from our southeast. 

The low will bring a tropical plume of higher moisture air into
the area, with pwats over the eastern half possibly reaching 
1.75 inches by late tonight into Wednesday morning, which is 
above the max moving average for the OKX sounding according to 
SPC's Sounding Climatology Page. The CAMs appear to be in decent
agreement on timing and coverage of showers moving from east to
west across the area. Given the high moisture, moderate to 
locally heavy showers are possible. No widespread hydrologic 
impacts are expected. See hydrology section below. Elevated 
instability increases overnight tonight and an isolated 
thunderstorm cannot be ruled out across the eastern half of the 
area, but confidence in this is low. As for timing, showers 
likely enter eastern portions of the area this evening then move
westward overnight. 

Temperatures tonight will be in the lower/mid 60s.

&&

.SHORT TERM /6 AM THIS MORNING THROUGH 6 PM THURSDAY/...
Showers will still be working through the area on Wednesday
morning, but have less moisture to deal with the farther west 
they get. See hydrology section below. Any showers likely come 
to an end during the late morning/early afternoon, with some 
lingering light showers possible through the day. Aforementioned
surface low pressure passes to our east and continues north and
east as a shortwave trough and associated broad surface low 
pressure pass to our north and west. This low will drag a cold 
front through our area Wednesday night and bring back 
drier/cooler air. With limited moisture, the cold front moves 
through with isolated light showers, if not dry.

Highs on Wednesday will be in the mid 60s to lower 70s. Lows 
Wednesday night will be lowest across the Lower Hudson Valley as
the cold front moves through here first. Lows here will be in 
the lower 50s, with mid to upper 50s expected elsewhere.

&&

.LONG TERM /THURSDAY NIGHT THROUGH TUESDAY/...
Mid-level ridging reestablishes itself across the Northeast
Thursday and Friday. Conditions dry behind the frontal passage
late Wed night/early Thursday morning and winds veer from NW to
NE through Friday as surface high pressure approaches from the 
Lakes.

The high to the north and ridging aloft should make for a
pleasant, albeit cool, late week. A cooler air mass advects 
south and east post frontal, with high temperatures tumbling 
10-15 degrees from earlier in the week. This cool-down is 
gradual however, with highs in the mid 60s expected Thursday, 
lowering to the upper 50s for Friday and Saturday (near climo 
norms for late Oct).

Global models continue to show a subtropical low spinning up
well off the Southeast coast, meandering in the western 
Atlantic into the weekend. Meanwhile, the surface high 
strengthens as it tracks into New England into the weekend, and 
the increased pressure gradient between the two pressure centers
may enhance the flow, especially on Friday, with gusts 20-25 
mph possible.

A predominantly dry weekend is expected with the high nearby,
though conditions moisten on Sunday as the high slides 
offshore, adding to the cloud cover late in the weekend as 
return flow sets up on the backside. A cutoff low over the Deep 
South begins to increase rain chances by late Sunday and on 
Monday as it begins to drift northward. A wet Halloween cannot 
be ruled out at this point, with guidance continuing to resolve 
temporal and spatial differences of this system. For now, capped
PoPs at chance (40-45%) given how late in the period this 
remains. Otherwise, maintained a balanced approach using 
national blended guidance.

&&

.AVIATION /06Z WEDNESDAY THROUGH SUNDAY/...
Offshore low pressure approaches tonight into Wed and then moves 
farther north towards Gulf of Maine. A cold front will move across 
Wednesday night.

Abundant low level moisture with a light SE-E flow 5 kts or less 
will keep low clouds and fog overnight into Wednesday. Mainly LIFR 
to some VLIFR conditions expected overnight into Wednesday morning. 
Just some marginal improvement expected Wednesday morning into 
Wednesday afternoon to IFR and eventually MVFR late Wednesday 
afternoon towards Wednesday evening. The wind direction at times 
will be variable but overall will become more of a S-SW flow around 
5-6 kts. 

The flow will become more westerly behind the cold front Wednesday 
night. The flow will not be too high, still near or slightly above 5 
kts. Fog could redevelop east of NYC terminals so MVFR a higher 
possibility and perhaps even IFR to LIFR through the evening hours 
for these more eastern terminals.

There will be chances for rain showers at times which could actually 
temporarily improve visibilities in those locations that have fog. 
Confidence is low on timing and position of showers though.

 ...NY Metro (KEWR/KLGA/KJFK/KTEB) TAF Uncertainty... 

Expect amendments for changes in flight cat which could be off by a 
few hours compared to TAF. Fluctuations quite possible between 
categories during the day Wednesday.

.OUTLOOK FOR 06Z THURSDAY THROUGH SUNDAY... 
.Late Wednesday night...Becoming VFR. 
.Thursday...VFR. NW winds 10-15G20kt. 
.Friday and Saturday...VFR. 
.Sunday...VFR in the morning. MVFR or lower possible late at night 
with any showers. 

Detailed information, including hourly TAF wind component forecasts, 
can be found at: https:/www.weather.gov/zny/n90

&&

.MARINE...
A Dense Fog Advisory has been issued through 15Z Wednesday with
lowering vsbys under 1 nm as fog develops and expands tonight. 

No SCA conditions are expected through Wednesday night. Winds 
do increase with the passing of a cold front Wednesday night, 
but gusts stay around 15-20 kt.

Increasing northeasterly fetch likely brings 25-kt gusts to the
ocean waters on Friday, with seas building 4-6 ft during this
time. Winds subside below SCA criteria Friday night, though 
seas likely remain elevated near 5 ft on Saturday, and perhaps 
into Sunday as well. 

Non-ocean waters are expected to remain below SCA criteria
Thursday through the weekend.

&&

.HYDROLOGY...
Moderate to locally heavy showers, and an isolated thunderstorm, 
will move from east to west tonight into Wednesday morning 
associated with low pressure that approaching from the SE. PW
increases to 1.75 inches for the eastern half of the area and 
this is where the higher rainfall totals can be expected. 
However, outside of possible minor flooding in poor drainage 
areas, no other flooding is expected. Average totals of a 
quarter to half an inch can be expected across southern CT and 
Long Island, with a tenth to a quarter of an inch for the rest 
of the area. There will be locally higher amounts under the 
heaviest showers. 

Overall, no widespread hydrologic impacts are expected through
early next week.

&&

.TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
Astronomical tides will be running high through Wednesday due to
a new moon. Therefore for Wednesday's high tide cycle minor 
coastal flooding benchmarks may be approached or slightly 
exceeded across the south shore back bays of Nassau, Queens, and
Fairfield, CT.

A ENE swell begins to increase into Friday. With increasing
swell energy despite an offshore wind preceding the swell 
increase, minor coastal flood benchmarks may again be approached
for the Friday and Saturday morning high tides for the same 
locations.

&&

.OKX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
NJ...None.
MARINE...Dense Fog Advisory until 11 AM EDT this morning for ANZ331-332-
     335-338-340-345-350-353-355.

&&

$$
SYNOPSIS...DR/JT
NEAR TERM...JP/DR/JT
SHORT TERM...JT
LONG TERM...DR
AVIATION...JM
MARINE...DR/JT
HYDROLOGY...DR/JT
TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
