797 
FXUS63 KGID 260508
AFDGID

AREA FORECAST DISCUSSION
National Weather Service Hastings NE
1208 AM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

...AVIATION UPDATE...


.DISCUSSION...(This evening through Tuesday)
Issued at 324 PM CDT Tue Oct 25 2022

 Key Messages:

* The best chance for any precipitation is between Wednesday
  afternoon and Friday morning. The amount of precipitation will
  generally be less than 0.25".  

* Despite the rain and dry air, only limited near critical
  conditions will occur Wednesday afternoon in our southwest. 

It is relatively active in the upper levels, but despite that, it
doesn't mean a lot of activity for us in the central Plains. The
bulk of interest exists in the next 72 hours.  

Surface high pressure will dominate tonight, allowing light to
variable winds and temperatures to bottom out in the low 30s.
Tomorrow, an upper wave and leading energy will bring a chance for
precipitation beginning Wednesday afternoon into the evening with
a brief lull before the next wave Thursday into Thursday night.  

On Wednesday, a leading PV disturbance will move northeast across
the area, the best lift looks to be further north and west, but
some of the western and central Nebraska portions of the forecast
area could see a small amount of rain. By Wednesday night the main
upper disturbance will dive south and wrap up. this disturbance
will eventually become cut off from the main flow - south over
Texas, but most of the Central Plains will be left without much 
in the way of precipitation benefit from it. Thursday afternoon
and evening will likely be the best chance for any measurable
precipitation, with the NBM generally showing about a .10" of rain
possible. There is generally about a 1 in 3 chance of receiving a
quarter inch (0.25") of rain with this system.

Overall a mild and seasonal week ahead with temperatures hovering
around the 60 degree mark...give or take a few. NBM guidance gives
a small spread in the temperature guidance - yielding confidence
in the near 60s values.  

The next cool down will come mid-week next week.  

The strongest winds will occur Wednesday, but even at that they
will not be strong by Nebraska Standards. Sustained speeds around
15 mph with gusts to 20 mph are expected during the afternoon
hours. The combination of low RH values in the teens and low 20s
and these winds will give near critical fire weather conditions
Wednesday afternoon.  



&&

.AVIATION...(For the 06Z KGRI/KEAR TAFS through 06Z Thursday)
Issued at 1152 PM CDT Tue Oct 25 2022

Increasing mid and high clouds today as a low pressure system is
forecast to move out of the Rockies. The winds will generally be
light overnight as a SFC high is over the area. As the high slides
to the east expect the winds to become southeasterly.Late in the
TAF period a LLJ will setup over the TAF sites, so put in a
mention for LLWS near the end of the TAF period. 

 

&&

.GID WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
NE...NONE.
KS...NONE.
&&

$$

DISCUSSION...Billings Wright
AVIATION...Beda
