455 
FXUS63 KGID 261949
AFDGID

AREA FORECAST DISCUSSION
National Weather Service Hastings NE
249 PM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

.DISCUSSION...(This evening through Wednesday)
Issued at 246 PM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

Key Messages:
1.) There is a band of VERY light rain moving northeast across 
the area this afternoon and early evening. Little to no impact 
expected. Most will just see sprinkles, at best. 

2.) Light rain showers are expected on Thursday. This will 
probably occur in two rounds...one in the early morning and 
another in the late afternoon and evening. In total, most 
locations will likely see less than 0.10". 

3.) High confidence in dry conditions Friday through early next 
week. 

Details:
Radar currently shows a weak band of rain near the KS/NE state
line. This will continue to lift northward through the rest of 
the afternoon and evening, but cloud bases are fairly high with 
relatively dry air at the surface. Therefore, much of the 
precipitation will evaporate before reaching the surface. Near- 
term models produce little to no QPF, therefore most locations 
will be lucky to get anything more than sprinkles out of this 
activity. 

Skies remain mostly cloudy tonight as an upper trough pushes into
the central US. The main system passes to our south, with a 
cutoff low developing over TX Thursday into Thursday night. Even 
still, models continue to advertise a few showers across Nebraska 
and Kansas on Thursday. As mentioned above, near-term models 
indicate the first round of rain showers developing early Thursday
morning, then a lull through most of the daytime followed by a 
few more showers in the evening. Ensembles favor northern portions
of the area to receive the highest rain totals...but even those 
will probably only be around 0.25". 

The aforementioned low remains stalled over TX through Friday and
Saturday, but there is high confidence that we will dry out for 
the weekend across the local area. Temperatures will also be 
seasonable (highs in the 60s and lows in the 30s). Even as another
trough pushes through the area Sunday, ensembles continue the dry
trend. In fact, nearly all of the EPS ensemble members are 
completely dry from Friday through Tuesday. Some spots will likely
return to the 70s Tuesday/Wednesday as another trough approaches 
from the west. 

Beyond that, details are very uncertain, but it does appear that 
there is at least some chance for precipitation and a cooldown 
late next week. 

&&

.AVIATION...(For the 18Z KGRI/KEAR TAFS through 18Z Thursday)
Issued at 1213 PM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

Only a low chance for sprinkles this afternoon, but skies will
remain BKN-OVC through tonight and into Thursday. A better chance
for light rain showers arrives on Thursday. Ceilings will drop
starting early Thursday morning, but the model consensus is for
them to remain above 5kft through at least midday (and possibly
through the afternoon as well). 

Also of significance is the threat for LLWS at both EAR and GRI
tonight into Thursday morning. 


&&

.GID WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
NE...NONE.
KS...NONE.
&&

$$

DISCUSSION...Mangels
AVIATION...Mangels
