768 
FXUS63 KGID 261103
AFDGID

AREA FORECAST DISCUSSION
National Weather Service Hastings NE
603 AM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

...AVIATION UPDATE...

.DISCUSSION...(Today through Tuesday)
Issued at 306 AM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

Key Messages:

* The best chance for precipitation across the area will be
  between tonight and Friday morning. Precipitation amounts 
  across the area are expected to be only 0.25" or less, however.

* Near critical fire weather conditions are possible this
  afternoon in our south and southwest.

Despite high pressure in place at the surface across the area,
upper level shortwave activity may provide the impetus for a few
showers to make their way northeast across the forecast area
today. This may end up being just an increase in cloud cover
and/or sprinkles, but elected to include a slight chance based on
CAM guidance. As this pushes off to the northeast, a surface low
over Colorado will gradually move southeast toward Oklahoma, while
an upper low pushes southeast across the Rockies tonight.

As this low moves into New Mexico and Texas it will begin to be
cutoff from the main flow, so the central Plains will not receive
nearly as much moisture as areas further south. However, an upper
trough will extend through the Plains region Thursday, bringing
the best chance of rain to our forecast area Thursday and into
Thursday evening. There are a couple of models that keep this
system around into Friday morning, but even worse, the GFS keeps 
nearly all of the precipitation well to the south leaving us 
nearly dry. For this forecast, decided to go with consensus with 
a moderately high chance of rain but low accumulations...most if 
not all of the area can expect to see 0.25" or less of rain from 
this system. Winds will be breezy but not really strong with this 
system...out of the southwest at 20 to 30 mph as the system moves 
through.

After Friday, while there are some signals in the long term model
guidance that indicate the possibility of another system late 
next week, this will be a dry forecast for now. Temperatures 
Friday through the weekend will top out in the 60s before 
potentially a brief warm up into the 70s early next week.



&&

.AVIATION...(For the 12Z KGRI/KEAR TAFS through 12Z Thursday)
Issued at 549 AM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

SFC high pressure will keep the winds fairly light this morning
until it moves a little farther east and allows for southeasterly
flow over the TAF sites around mid-morning. The gradient will
tighten a little as the SFC low moves into the plains so added
gusts to the afternoon forecast. Debated about keeping in the 
gusts this evening and looking at various models decided to go 
worse case and keep them in. Also kept LLWS in the TAFs as models
continue showing a LLJ setting up over the TAF sites this evening.
TAF sites could see a sprinkle or two mid-day, and chances look
better this evening so put a mention of VCSH for now. Better
chances for -SHRA will be near the end of the TAF period.

&&

.GID WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
NE...NONE.
KS...NONE.
&&

$$

DISCUSSION...Hickford
AVIATION...Beda
