623 
FXUS61 KPBZ 262333
AFDPBZ

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Pittsburgh PA
733 PM EDT Wed Oct 26 2022

.SYNOPSIS...
Lingering light and isolated showers tonight will be followed by
dry weather and seasonable temperature Thursday and into the 
weekend.

&&

.NEAR TERM /UNTIL 6 AM THURSDAY MORNING/...
Isolated to scattered light showers/sprinkles will diminish
through the evening as a crossing shortwave exits east, but a 
subsidence inversion will keep low- level moisture trapped, 
maintaining clouds through the night across the majority of the
region. This, and continued mixing, will keep overnight lows 
near climatology.

&&

.SHORT TERM /6 AM THURSDAY MORNING THROUGH SATURDAY/...
Surface high pressure will drift across the Great Lakes and southern 
Canada during this period, with another period of dry weather.
Morning clouds will mix out by midday Thursday, with plenty of
afternoon sun. Warm advection and a weak shortwave aloft may 
lead to some high clouds on Friday, although no precipitation is
expected due to a dearth of moisture in the lower levels.

Temperatures will be a few degrees below climatology on Thursday in 
the wake of today's frontal passage, but will rebound several 
degrees on Friday as 850mb temperatures warm.

&&

.LONG TERM /SATURDAY NIGHT THROUGH WEDNESDAY/...
An upper closed low over the ArkLaTex region at this start of this 
period is still forecast to lift northeastward and open up with 
time.  Eventually, this system could phase with a northern stream 
wave crossing the Plains on Sunday, with a shortwave over the 
Lower/Middle Ohio Valley being the eventual result on Monday. Still 
not impressed with the strength of this wave as it eventually lifts 
over our region early next week.  

A dry outcome is still very likely through Saturday night.  Elected 
to pull back on Sunday/Sunday night NBM PoPs slightly in a nod 
towards the slower outcome.  Also, continued previous trend of 
nudging Sunday high temperatures a couple of degrees higher 
than NBM due to a slower arrival of clouds and rain. PoPs 
maximize in the likely range Sunday night/Monday as the trough 
crosses. Temperatures remain near/above normal through this 
time.

A few showers may linger Tuesday, with high pressure and dry weather 
returning on Wednesday.  Notably, virtually all models beyond the 
middle of next week point to strong positive 500mb height anomalies, 
meaning warmer-than-normal weather will continue well into the early 
part of November.

&&

.AVIATION /23Z WEDNESDAY THROUGH MONDAY/...
High IFR cigs in FKL and DUJ, as well as low MVRF cigs 
elsewhere will persist into the early overnight as moisture 
remains trapped under a subsidence inversion. With the departure
of low pressure, the area may maintain gusts of up to 20kts 
under a heightened pressure gradient. 

Towards the late overnight, surface high pressure will move in 
from the west. This will reduce surface winds and raise cigs 
slightly. With the exception of ZZV, MVFR cigs are expected 
through daybreak. Cigs will return to VFR tomorrow morning as 
mixing dries the boundary layer. A low scattered deck may 
persist through the day tomorrow under a steep low- level 
inversion.

Tomorrow evening, clouds will clear with reinforcing dry air.

.OUTLOOK...
VFR is expected Thu thru Sun under high pres. Restriction
potential returns with Sun night/Mon low pres.

&&

.PBZ WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
PA...None.
OH...None.
WV...None.

&&

$$
AVIATION...Milcarek
