281 
FXUS61 KPBZ 261105
AFDPBZ

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Pittsburgh PA
705 AM EDT Wed Oct 26 2022

.SYNOPSIS...
Showers will move through the area today with the passage of a
cold front. Dry weather and seasonable temperature return with 
high pressure for Thursday and into the weekend.

&&

.NEAR TERM /UNTIL 6 PM THIS EVENING/...
Made some tweaks to rain coverage and timing through the day
using a hi-res model blend. Also, extended chances of showers
into the evening hours, as the lake/850mb temperature difference
may be just enough to allow for the generation of showers off of
Lake Erie. 

A shortwave trough, and an associated frontal boundary, will 
lift out of the Middle Ohio Valley and into the eastern Great 
Lakes today. A period of steady rain is expected with frontal 
passage, which should move through quickly as the front 
hurriedly rotates toward the northeast. 

Noticeably cooler temperatures today thanks to the clouds, rain
and cold air advection behind the front.

&&

.SHORT TERM /6 PM THIS EVENING THROUGH SATURDAY/...
A few showers may linger past sunset in WNW flow behind the 
front, but these will end during the evening as high pressure 
noses into the region from the western Lakes. A clearing sky and
dry weather will then take hold for late tonight and Thursday. 
A weak shortwave may provide a few high clouds Thursday night, 
but high pressure and a dearth of moisture will keep the surface
dry.

Behind the front, temperatures will cool closer to seasonal levels, 
with max values on Thursday generally remaining in the 50s.

Friday will also be dry and cool as high pressure drifts across
northern PA.

&&

.LONG TERM /SATURDAY NIGHT THROUGH TUESDAY/...
Short wave trough currently over Pacific Northwest expected to
dig southeast across the Rocky Mountains today and be over New
Mexico by Thursday. An upper closed low over Texas Friday will 
slowly degenerate into an open wave as it drifts towards the 
Lower and Middle Ohio Valley over the weekend. 

Models/ensembles continue to advertise a slower trend with this
advance and there is increasing confidence that much of the
weekend will now be dry in the Upper Ohio Valley. Ahead of the 
system, rising 500mb heights will lead to continued dry weather 
through Sunday morning, along with temperatures rising several 
degrees above normal once again. While high clouds will be 
increasing on Sunday, it still appears that lower to middle 60s 
are likely for MaxT so going closer to NBM 75th percentile.

Guidance in better agreement in leading edge of rain shield in
warm advection regime ahead of weak surface low tracking up the
lower Ohio River valley. While faster solutions have rain
chances increasing Sunday afternoon, timing could be as late as
later Sunday night. Trend is also for precipitation to be
lighter and less organized with time as surface feature weakens
dramatically towards Monday. Significant precipitation appears
less and less likely to occur with this system as median NBM 24
hour PQPF values are less than 0.50".

&&

.AVIATION /11Z WEDNESDAY THROUGH SUNDAY/...
The approach and passage of a sfc low/cdfnt will lower cigs 
with rain from west to east this morning... initially through 
ZZV around 09z then nearing PIT by 12z. MVFR with patchy IFR 
restrictions are expected. A wshft to the SW is expected with 
FROPA with gusts to near 20kt. MVFR and patchy IFR will then 
continue into the evening with llvl moisture underneath a 
strengthening subsidence inversion. 

.OUTLOOK...
Improvement to VFR is expected Thu under bldg high pres. 
Outside of lcl restrictions via river valley fog no widespread 
impacts are anticipated thereafter.

&&

.PBZ WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
PA...None.
OH...None.
WV...None.

&&

$$
SYNOPSIS...22
NEAR TERM...56
SHORT TERM...22
LONG TERM...
AVIATION...14
