422 
FXUS61 KPBZ 260129 CCA
AFDPBZ

Area Forecast Discussion...CORRECTED
National Weather Service Pittsburgh PA
929 PM EDT Tue Oct 25 2022

.SYNOPSIS...
Rain is expected late tonight and continuing through Wednesday 
as low pressure cross the area. Dry weather and seasonable 
temperature return with high pressure for Thursday and into the 
weekend.

&&

.NEAR TERM /UNTIL 6 AM WEDNESDAY MORNING/... 
00Z RAOBS and model data continue to indicate mid and high level 
clouds will increase across the area tonight under warm, moist 
advection aloft ahead of an approaching shortwave trough across 
the MS Valley region. Very dry air mid and low level air was 
observed on the PIT sounding, though upstream at ILN this dry air 
has been eroding since the 12Z obs. 

The trough, and its associated sfc low/cold front, will track 
newd, approaching the Upper Ohio Valley region late tonight. 
Escalating rain chances are expected as shortwave supported 
ascent and moisture increase toward morning. Overnight lows are
expected to average around 10 degrees above seasonable levels.

&&

.SHORT TERM /6 AM WEDNESDAY MORNING THROUGH THURSDAY NIGHT/...
The shortwave trough and an associated frontal boundary will lift 
out of the Middle Ohio Valley and into the eastern Great Lakes on 
Wednesday.  The system will have ample lift thanks to the front and 
a shot of DCVA, but overall system speed and a lack of instability 
will keep rainfall rates in check. Between 0.25 and 0.50 inch 
of system-total rain can be expected in most cases.

A few showers may linger past sunset in WNW flow behind the front, 
but these will end during the evening as high pressure noses into 
the region from the western Lakes.  A clearing sky and dry weather 
will then take hold for late Wednesday night and Thursday.  A weak 
shortwave may provide a few high clouds Thursday night, but high 
pressure and a dearth of moisture will keep the surface dry.

Behind the front, temperatures will cool closer to seasonal levels, 
with max values on Thursday generally remaining in the 50s.

&&

.LONG TERM /FRIDAY THROUGH TUESDAY/...
An upper closed low over Texas will slowly degenerate into an open 
wave as it drifts towards the Lower and Middle Ohio Valley over the 
weekend.  Models/ensembles continue to advertise a slower trend with 
this advance. Ahead of the system, rising 500mb heights will lead to 
continued dry weather through Saturday, along with temperatures 
rising several degrees above normal once again.

The NBM seems to be catching on to the slower trend, as QPF is a bit 
lower and temperatures are a bit higher on Sunday than the previous 
cycle. Onset of rain from the system from the system approaching 
from the southwest now seems more likely to hold off until Sunday, 
and would not be surprised to see this trend even slower with time. 
Still, another round of light rain seems likely at the tail end of 
the extended period, with temperatures remaining near or just a 
touch above climatology into early next week.

&&

.AVIATION /01Z WEDNESDAY THROUGH SUNDAY/...
VFR is expected to continue until the approach of a shortwave
trough and its associated sfc low/cdfnt late tonight and early 
Wed. Rain and MVFR restrictions are expected as shortwave and 
jet supported ascent, and moisture increase. Low MVFR cigs, and 
a wshft to the SW are expected by aftn after FROPA. Wind is 
expected to gust up to 20kt with some mixing and tight sfc 
pressure gradient behind the cdfnt.

MVFR/patchy IFR cigs should continue through the evening with
llvl moisture in place below a strengthening subsidence
inversion.

.OUTLOOK...
Improvement to VFR is expected Thu under bldg high pres. 
Outside of lcl restrictions via river valley fog no widespread 
impacts are anticipated thereafter.

&&

.PBZ WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
PA...None.
OH...None.
WV...None.

&&

$$
