996 
FXUS61 KPBZ 261715
AFDPBZ

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Pittsburgh PA
115 PM EDT Wed Oct 26 2022

.SYNOPSIS...
Lingering scattered showers will end overnight in the wake of a
cold front. Dry weather and seasonable temperature return with 
high pressure for Thursday and into the weekend.

&&

.NEAR TERM /UNTIL 6 PM THIS EVENING/...
The surface cold front will exit the CWA during the mid-
afternoon hours. Steadier bands of rain will be replaced by 
more scattered showers as the wind backs to WNW behind the front
and as the mid-level shortwave crosses. Improved mixing behind
the front will help to provide wind gusts of up to 30 MPH
through sunset. Temperatures have already reached their highs in
many cases, and may drop a tick or two during the afternoon.

Scattered showers will continue into the evening, mainly north
of Pittsburgh due to marginal lake enhancement, as well as along
the ridges due to upslope flow. Approaching surface high 
pressure will generally end these showers by midnight, but a
subsidence inversion will keep low-level moisture trapped,
maintaining clouds through the night in the majority of the
region. This, and continued mixing, will keep overnight lows
near climatology.

&&

.SHORT TERM /6 PM THIS EVENING THROUGH SATURDAY/...
Surface high pressure will drift across the Great Lakes and southern 
Canada during this period, with another period of dry weather.
Morning clouds will mix out by midday Thursday, with plenty of
afternoon sun. Warm advection and a weak shortwave aloft may 
lead to some high clouds on Friday, although no precipitation is
expected due to a dearth of moisture in the lower levels.

Temperatures will be a few degrees below climatology on Thursday in 
the wake of today's frontal passage, but will rebound several 
degrees on Friday as 850mb temperatures warm.

&&

.LONG TERM /SATURDAY NIGHT THROUGH TUESDAY/...
An upper closed low over the ArkLaTex region at this start of this 
period is still forecast to lift northeastward and open up with 
time.  Eventually, this system could phase with a northern stream 
wave crossing the Plains on Sunday, with a shortwave over the 
Lower/Middle Ohio Valley being the eventual result on Monday. Still 
not impressed with the strength of this wave as it eventually lifts 
over our region early next week.  

A dry outcome is still very likely through Saturday night.  Elected 
to pull back on Sunday/Sunday night NBM PoPs slightly in a nod 
towards the slower outcome.  Also, continued previous trend of 
nudging Sunday high temperatures a couple of degrees higher 
than NBM due to a slower arrival of clouds and rain. PoPs 
maximize in the likely range Sunday night/Monday as the trough 
crosses. Temperatures remain near/above normal through this 
time.

A few showers may linger Tuesday, with high pressure and dry weather 
returning on Wednesday.  Notably, virtually all models beyond the 
middle of next week point to strong positive 500mb height anomalies, 
meaning warmer-than-normal weather will continue well into the early 
part of November.

&&

.AVIATION /18Z WEDNESDAY THROUGH MONDAY/...
A cdfnt will complete its passage this afternoon. Widespread
MVFR/patchy IFR cigs are expected after FROPA, with low level
moisture in place below a strengthening subsidence inversion. A
few more showers are expected mainly N of PIT through late aftn
as the associated upr trough crosses the region. 

A brief period of gusty SW wind up to 20kt is expected as the 
pressure gradient tightens and mixing increases after FROPA. 
The cig restrictions should continue tonight, before bldg sfc 
high pressure results in a clearing trend and return to VFR by 
mid morning Thu.

.OUTLOOK...
VFR is expected Thu thru Sun under high pres. Restriction
potential returns with Sun night/Mon low pres.

&&

.PBZ WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
PA...None.
OH...None.
WV...None.

&&

$$
SYNOPSIS...56
NEAR TERM...56
SHORT TERM...56
LONG TERM...56
AVIATION...07
