921 
FXUS61 KPBZ 262149
AFDPBZ

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Pittsburgh PA
549 PM EDT Wed Oct 26 2022

.SYNOPSIS...
Lingering light and isolated showers tonight will be followed by
dry weather and seasonable temperature Thursday and into the 
weekend.

&&

.NEAR TERM /UNTIL 6 AM THURSDAY MORNING/...
Isolated to scattered light showers/sprinkles will diminish
through the evening as a crossing shortwave exits east, but a 
subsidence inversion will keep low- level moisture trapped, 
maintaining clouds through the night across the majority of the
region. This, and continued mixing, will keep overnight lows 
near climatology.


&&

.SHORT TERM /6 AM THURSDAY MORNING THROUGH SATURDAY/...
Surface high pressure will drift across the Great Lakes and southern 
Canada during this period, with another period of dry weather.
Morning clouds will mix out by midday Thursday, with plenty of
afternoon sun. Warm advection and a weak shortwave aloft may 
lead to some high clouds on Friday, although no precipitation is
expected due to a dearth of moisture in the lower levels.

Temperatures will be a few degrees below climatology on Thursday in 
the wake of today's frontal passage, but will rebound several 
degrees on Friday as 850mb temperatures warm.

&&

.LONG TERM /SATURDAY NIGHT THROUGH WEDNESDAY/...
An upper closed low over the ArkLaTex region at this start of this 
period is still forecast to lift northeastward and open up with 
time.  Eventually, this system could phase with a northern stream 
wave crossing the Plains on Sunday, with a shortwave over the 
Lower/Middle Ohio Valley being the eventual result on Monday. Still 
not impressed with the strength of this wave as it eventually lifts 
over our region early next week.  

A dry outcome is still very likely through Saturday night.  Elected 
to pull back on Sunday/Sunday night NBM PoPs slightly in a nod 
towards the slower outcome.  Also, continued previous trend of 
nudging Sunday high temperatures a couple of degrees higher 
than NBM due to a slower arrival of clouds and rain. PoPs 
maximize in the likely range Sunday night/Monday as the trough 
crosses. Temperatures remain near/above normal through this 
time.

A few showers may linger Tuesday, with high pressure and dry weather 
returning on Wednesday.  Notably, virtually all models beyond the 
middle of next week point to strong positive 500mb height anomalies, 
meaning warmer-than-normal weather will continue well into the early 
part of November.

&&

.AVIATION /22Z WEDNESDAY THROUGH MONDAY/...
A cold font has progressed through all ports. Widespread 
MVFR/patchy IFR cigs are expected after FROPA, with low level 
moisture in place below a strengthening subsidence inversion.
Most showers have departed the region, though some light 
showers may linger as an upper trough crosses the region. The 
highest likelihood to showers will be north of PIT with a 
greater proximity to Lake Erie. Chances will drop drastically
into the overnight hours.

A brief period of gusty SW wind up to 20kt has been observed as
the pressure gradient tightens and mixing increases after 
FROPA. Winds will drop overnight with a building high. The cig 
restrictions should continue tonight, before bldg sfc high 
pressure results in a clearing trend and return to VFR by mid 
morning Thu.

.OUTLOOK...
VFR is expected Thu thru Sun under high pres. Restriction
potential returns with Sun night/Mon low pres.

&&

.PBZ WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
PA...None.
OH...None.
WV...None.

&&

$$
