442 
FXUS61 KPBZ 260457 AAB
AFDPBZ

Area Forecast Discussion...UPDATED
National Weather Service Pittsburgh PA
1257 AM EDT Wed Oct 26 2022

.SYNOPSIS...
Showers will move through the area today with the passage of a
cold front. Dry weather and seasonable temperature return with 
high pressure for Thursday and into the weekend.

&&

.NEAR TERM /THROUGH TODAY/...
No major changes to the overnight period. Did make some timing
differences in the onset of rain, slowing its arrival by an hour
or so, as the 00Z sounding at PIT depicts a very dry atmosphere
and the latest hires model guidance has leaned toward a slower
eastward progression of the rain. 

A shortwave trough, and an associated frontal boundary, will 
lift out of the Middle Ohio Valley and into the eastern Great 
Lakes today. A period of steady rain is expected with frontal 
passage, which should move through quickly as the front 
hurriedly rotates toward the northeast. 

Noticeably cooler temperatures today thanks to the clouds, rain
and cold air advection behind the front.

&&

.SHORT TERM /TONIGHT THROUGH FRIDAY/...
A few showers may linger past sunset in WNW flow behind the 
front, but these will end during the evening as high pressure 
noses into the region from the western Lakes. A clearing sky and
dry weather will then take hold for late tonight and Thursday. 
A weak shortwave may provide a few high clouds Thursday night, 
but high pressure and a dearth of moisture will keep the surface
dry.

Behind the front, temperatures will cool closer to seasonal levels, 
with max values on Thursday generally remaining in the 50s.

Friday will also be dry and cool as high pressure drifts across
northern PA.

&&

.LONG TERM /FRIDAY NIGHT THROUGH TUESDAY/...
An upper closed low over Texas will slowly degenerate into an open 
wave as it drifts towards the Lower and Middle Ohio Valley over the 
weekend.  Models/ensembles continue to advertise a slower trend with 
this advance. Ahead of the system, rising 500mb heights will lead to 
continued dry weather through Saturday, along with temperatures 
rising several degrees above normal once again.

The NBM seems to be catching on to the slower trend, as QPF is a bit 
lower and temperatures are a bit higher on Sunday than the previous 
cycle. Onset of rain from the system from the system approaching 
from the southwest now seems more likely to hold off until Sunday, 
and would not be surprised to see this trend even slower with time. 
Still, another round of light rain seems likely at the tail end of 
the extended period, with temperatures remaining near or just a 
touch above climatology into early next week.

&&

.AVIATION /06Z WEDNESDAY THROUGH SUNDAY/...
The approach and passage of a sfc low/cdfnt will lower cigs 
with rain from west to east this morning... initially through 
ZZV around 09z then nearing PIT by 12z. MVFR with patchy IFR 
restrictions are expected. A wshft to the SW is expected with 
FROPA with gusts to near 20kt. MVFR and patchy IFR will then 
continue into the evening with llvl moisture underneath a 
strengthening subsidence inversion. 

.OUTLOOK...
Improvement to VFR is expected Thu under bldg high pres. 
Outside of lcl restrictions via river valley fog no widespread 
impacts are anticipated thereafter.

&&

.PBZ WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
PA...None.
OH...None.
WV...None.

&&

$$
SYNOPSIS...22
NEAR TERM...22
SHORT TERM...22
LONG TERM...
AVIATION...
