003 
FXUS61 KRNK 261748
AFDRNK

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Blacksburg VA
148 PM EDT Wed Oct 26 2022

.SYNOPSIS...
Following a cold front that will continue pushing east to the
coast tonight, high pressure builds into the region for 
Thursday through Saturday with dry weather and near normal
temperatures. A low pressure system moving across the southeast
United States will bring a prolonged period of rain to the Mid
Atlantic states and Carolinas Sunday through Monday night. 
 
&&

.NEAR TERM /THROUGH THURSDAY/...
As of 130 PM EDT Wednesday...
  
   Forecast for tonight still dry with gusty wind.

Heights at 500 MB rise tonight and Thursday as southwest flow 
develop downstream of a deepening long wave trough over the 
central United States. Surface and 850Mb front cross through the
area this afternoon. Winds strengthen from the northwest 
briefly behind the front with the low-level jet reaching 30 to 
35 knots around 00Z/8PM. But as the wind direction continues 
veering to the north then northeast overnight and Thursday, the 
jet is weaker. 

Moisture above 700 MB had already lifted to the northeast in advance 
of the short wave in the Ohio Valley. Low level moisture will begin 
to clear out quickly in the foothills and piedmont after 21Z/5PM, 
aided by downsloping wind. Similar to the current forecast, will
hold the upslope clouds over the mountains through Thursday 
morning. 

No significant changes to temperature forecast. NBM is reasonable 
with temperatures near normal.   

&&

.SHORT TERM /THURSDAY NIGHT THROUGH SATURDAY NIGHT/...
As of 445 AM EDT Wednesday...

   Cool and dry most of the weekend.

After an upper trough tracks northeast and past our CWA by Thursday, 
an area of surface high pressure moves east across the Mid-west and 
towards the Great Lakes/southern Canada. By Saturday this high will 
be in a position to wedge us in and cool things down, especially 
east of the Blue Ridge. With 500mb heights rising in response to a 
cutoff  low over the southern plains, and a dry airmass in place, 
not expecting any precipitation through Saturday. Clouds will fill 
in over the east with the wedge. Highs Friday and Saturday will be 
held to the 50s and low 60s.

&&

.LONG TERM /SUNDAY THROUGH TUESDAY/...
As of 445 AM EDT Wednesday...

   Rain returns by early next week.

Deep troughing over the southern and central plains will track 
northeast and into the Midwest/Great Lakes region over the weekend. 
This will bring rain to the CWA as early as Sunday morning, but each 
model cycle continues to trend a few hours slower, so timing is not 
set in stone for this system yet. As this system interacts with the 
increased moisture brought in from return flow as a result of the 
wedge setup, rain showers will impact the entire area and exit with 
the trough near the middle of the week. The wedge will be eroded by 
this low pressure system, and high pressure placed more overhead of 
the Mid-Atlantic will come behind this system. Mostly dry weather to 
end next week. Temperatures will start cool and moderate towards 
normal by the end of the forecast period.

&&

.AVIATION /18Z WEDNESDAY THROUGH MONDAY/...
As of 145 PM EDT Wednesday...
 
Heights at 500 MB rise tonight and Thursday as southwest flow 
develop downstream of a deepening long wave trough over the 
central United States. Surface and 850Mb front cross through the
area this afternoon. Have the front east of KDAN and KLYH before
00Z/8PM. 

Winds strengthen from the northwest briefly behind the front 
with the low-level jet reaching 30 to 35 knots around 00Z/8PM. 
But as the wind direction continues veering to the north then 
northeast overnight and Thursday, the jet is weaker. 

Moisture above 700 MB had already lifted to the northeast in advance 
of the short wave in the Ohio Valley. Low level moisture will begin 
to clear out quickly in the foothills and piedmont after 21Z/5PM, 
aided by downsloping wind. MVFR still covered much of the
central Appalachians later this afternoon. Expecting little
change in ceilings tonight but quick improvement after 12Z/8AM
on Thursday. TAFs have KBLF and KLWB improving back to VFR by
14Z/10AM, but this may be too fast. 

Average confidence for ceiling, visibility and wind. 


Extended Aviation Discussion... 

VFR conditions are expected Thursday through Saturday as high 
pressure covers the region both at the surface and aloft. 
 
A strong wedge will set up Thursday night and Friday and remain
over the area through the weekend. This will result in 
increasing clouds and lowering ceilings Friday and Saturday.
 
IFR to MVFR conditions will be widespread Sunday and Monday due
to rain, fog and stratus. 

&&

.RNK WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
VA...None.
NC...None.
WV...None.

&&

$$
SYNOPSIS...AMS
NEAR TERM...AMS
SHORT TERM...VFJ
LONG TERM...VFJ
AVIATION...AMS/RAB
