890 
FXUS61 KRNK 261810
AFDRNK

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Blacksburg VA
210 PM EDT Wed Oct 26 2022

.SYNOPSIS...
Following a cold front that will continue pushing east to the
coast tonight, high pressure builds into the region for 
Thursday through Saturday with dry weather and near normal
temperatures. A low pressure system moving across the southeast
United States will bring a prolonged period of rain to the Mid
Atlantic states and Carolinas Sunday through Monday night.

&&

.NEAR TERM /THROUGH THURSDAY/...
As of 130 PM EDT Wednesday...
  
   Forecast for tonight still dry with gusty wind.

Heights at 500 MB rise tonight and Thursday as southwest flow 
develop downstream of a deepening long wave trough over the 
central United States. Surface and 850Mb front cross through the
area this afternoon. Winds strengthen from the northwest 
briefly behind the front with the low-level jet reaching 30 to 
35 knots around 00Z/8PM. But as the wind direction continues 
veering to the north then northeast overnight and Thursday, the 
jet is weaker. 

Moisture above 700 MB had already lifted to the northeast in advance 
of the short wave in the Ohio Valley. Low level moisture will begin 
to clear out quickly in the foothills and piedmont after 21Z/5PM, 
aided by downsloping wind. Similar to the current forecast, will
hold the upslope clouds over the mountains through Thursday 
morning. 

No significant changes to temperature forecast. NBM is reasonable 
with temperatures near normal.

&&

.SHORT TERM /THURSDAY NIGHT THROUGH SATURDAY NIGHT/...
As of 205 PM EDT Wednesday...

   Cold air damming pattern expected to bring more clouds than sun 
for most areas starting Friday afternoon.

Thursday night the center of a ridge of high pressure will be 
building east across the eastern Great Lakes region, reaching the 
lee of the Appalachians by Friday afternoon. While the high pressure 
is expected to keep the area precipitation free through Friday, flow 
around it will start to advect low level moisture upslope along the 
eastern slope of the Appalachian by Friday afternoon. This pattern 
will continue and expand in scope heading into Saturday and Saturday 
night.

For our region, this axis transition and easterly moisture flow will 
first bring increased cloud cover to at least the central and 
eastern parts of the area Friday afternoon and Friday night. By 
Saturday into Saturday night, enough low level moisture is expected 
to pool across the area of the Northern Mountains of North Carolina 
for some patchy light rain in this region. Coverage is expected to 
expand northward into parts of southwest Virginia on Saturday night. 
The precipitation formation will be enhanced a bit by the approach 
of a approaching closed low across the mid-Mississippi Valley. 

Temperatures during this portion of the forecast will be slightly 
below normal.

Confidence in the above weather scenario is moderate to high.

&&

.LONG TERM /SUNDAY THROUGH WEDNESDAY/...
As of 100 PM EDT Wednesday...

   Wetter Sunday and Monday then trending drier Tuesday into 
Wednesday.

On Sunday morning, a closed upper low over the mid-Mississippi 
Valley is expected to open into a more progressive trough as it 
heads northeast towards the Great Lakes. Its associated double-
barrel occluded surface low pressure is expected to head northeast 
through the Deep South with associated occluded and warm fronts 
crossing eastern Tennessee and the Carolinas during the day Monday 
towards, and then across, our region. By Monday night into Tuesday 
morning, we will be on the backside of the system with a northwest 
wind.

The result of the above pattern transition will be increasing 
coverage of rain across the area on Sunday. Sunday night into 
Monday, robust coverage of rain, occasionally moderate rain, is 
expected as the occluded/warm front lifts north across the region. 
Monday night into Tuesday, the axis of the upper level trough is 
expected to cross our region, allowing our prevailing wind to become 
west or northwest, with the best of the upper level forcing exiting 
the region. Precipitation is expected to trend more showery with a 
weak upslope component in the west expected. Look for decreasing 
coverage of showers during this time frame across the region with 
the best coverage over southeast West Virginia. 

Tuesday night into Wednesday are expected to be dry with the return 
of high pressure across our area. 

&&

.AVIATION /18Z WEDNESDAY THROUGH MONDAY/...
As of 145 PM EDT Wednesday...
 
Heights at 500 MB rise tonight and Thursday as southwest flow 
develop downstream of a deepening long wave trough over the 
central United States. Surface and 850Mb front cross through the
area this afternoon. Have the front east of KDAN and KLYH before
00Z/8PM. 

Winds strengthen from the northwest briefly behind the front 
with the low-level jet reaching 30 to 35 knots around 00Z/8PM. 
But as the wind direction continues veering to the north then 
northeast overnight and Thursday, the jet is weaker. 

Moisture above 700 MB had already lifted to the northeast in advance 
of the short wave in the Ohio Valley. Low level moisture will begin 
to clear out quickly in the foothills and piedmont after 21Z/5PM, 
aided by downsloping wind. MVFR still covered much of the
central Appalachians later this afternoon. Expecting little
change in ceilings tonight but quick improvement after 12Z/8AM
on Thursday. TAFs have KBLF and KLWB improving back to VFR by
14Z/10AM, but this may be too fast. 

Average confidence for ceiling, visibility and wind. 


Extended Aviation Discussion... 

VFR conditions are expected Thursday through Saturday as high 
pressure covers the region both at the surface and aloft. 
 
A strong wedge will set up Thursday night and Friday and remain
over the area through the weekend. This will result in 
increasing clouds and lowering ceilings Friday and Saturday.
 
IFR to MVFR conditions will be widespread Sunday and Monday due
to rain, fog and stratus.

&&

.RNK WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
VA...None.
NC...None.
WV...None.

&&

$$
SYNOPSIS...AMS
NEAR TERM...AMS
SHORT TERM...DS
LONG TERM...DS
AVIATION...AMS/RAB
