823 
FXUS61 KRNK 260827
AFDRNK

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Blacksburg VA
427 AM EDT Wed Oct 26 2022

.SYNOPSIS...
A vigorous area of low pressure aloft will move rapidly north
from the western Tennessee Valley into the Ohio Valley today and
weaken. A large area of surface high pressure will build in its
wake across the Ohio Valley by Thursday then move toward New
England by the end of the week. A few showers will accompany the
low pressure tracking through the Ohio Valley today. Then cooler
air will spread into the region by the weekend as high pressure
sets up to our northeast. A new area of low pressure will track
out of the Southern Plains toward the Ohio Valley during the
first half of next week bringing our next chance for rain.
Temperatures will be near seasonal normals for the next several
days.

&&

.NEAR TERM /THROUGH TONIGHT/...
As of 415 AM EDT Wednesday...
  
...Chance for Rain Showers Western Mountain This Morning,
Otherwise Remaining Mostly Cloudy but Dry Later Today the End of
the Week...

The vigorous negatively tilted upper low which ejected northeast
out of the Southern Plains on Tuesday was located in the Ohio
Valley early this morning. The system is rapidly weakening, but
still supports a band of showers from its center in Ohio
southeast through the Appalachians into the southeast U.S. and
eastern Gulf. This system will continue to weaken today as it
tracks north toward the Great Lakes on the west side of a high
amplitude upper ridge anchored in the western Atlantic. While
the upper low will briefly suppress heights, the western
Atlantic ridge will quickly strengthen again Thu-Fri and remain
anchored along the Mid-Atlantic/Southeast U.S. coast into the
weekend. Surface high pressure will build in the wake of the
departing upper low and move from the Ohio Valley toward New
England by Friday and into the weekend.

Showers will move toward the Blue Ridge this morning all the
while weakening. Little more than clouds and perhaps a light
shower or sprinkle will make it east of the Blue Ridge by
afternoon. That should be the end of any meaningulf
precipitation this forecast period. Even in the west, rainfall
amounts are only expected to be 1/10th inch or less.

Areas of fog were observed once again this morning across the 
eastern portions of the Piedmont advected westward from the 
coastal plain by a shallow marine layer and light easterly 
surface flow. Visibilities overall have been more in the 1/2 to
1 mile range this morning as compared to the widespread 0 to 1/4
mile range observed this time yesterday morning. Thus, an SPS so
far has been more appropriate than a Dense Fog Advisory (DFA),
but will continue to monitor and coordinate with our eastern
neighbors.

Temperatures today should be on the order of 5-7 degrees cooler
than those observed Tuesday as clouds temper insolation. 850mb
temperatures, which yesterday peaked around +16C will drop back
toward +10C to +12C today and back toward +8C by Thursday
morning. High temperatures today are expected to be mostly in
the 50s to mid 60s west and in the upper 60s to lower 70s east.
Lows tonight should be mainly 35 to 40 west and 40 to 45 east,
thus remaining above freezing for the most part except locations
like Burkes Garden.

The gusty southeast winds across southwest VA/southeast WV this
morning have subsided and become variable in direction as the
rain showers moved through. Winds will become west to northwest
later this morning with low end gusts possible at times, mainly
west of the Blue Ridge.

/Confidence Levels in Forecast Parameters/
- Moderate Confidence in Temperatures,
- Moderate Confidence in Precipitation Probabilities,
- Moderate Confidence in Wind Direction and Speed.

&&

.SHORT TERM /THURSDAY THROUGH SATURDAY NIGHT/...
As of 100 PM EDT Tuesday...

   Confidence high for cooler temperatures Thursday. 

Once upper trough moves northeast and open wave tracks through the 
Mid Atlantic and New England Wednesday night and Thursday 500 MB 
heights rise and flow stays southwesterly through Friday. 
Closed upper low over the Pacific Northwest dives southwest 
through the Southern Plains by Saturday morning. Models were in 
good agreement with the timing and location of synoptic scale 
features during this time frame. 

Even low level moisture over the mountains dries out on Thursday. 
But slightly cooler 850MB temperatures will keep maximum 
temperatures near normal, despite the abundant sunshine. 

Surface high pressure builds in Wednesday night through Friday, with 
wedging developing Friday and Friday night. As winds veer to the 
east on Friday, clouds will spread into the area from east to
west.

&&

.LONG TERM /SUNDAY THROUGH TUESDAY/...
As of 1230 PM EDT Tuesday...

 Confidence is increasing for cooler weather this weekend with 
 rain early next week.

High pressure will wedge against the eastern slopes of the Blue 
Ridge on Saturday, which should bring an increasing easterly flow to 
advect cooler and moister air from the Atlantic Ocean. The cool 
wedge will persist throughout the weekend, so temperatures have been 
adjusted toward the lower side of model guidance. Meanwhile, an 
upper level low in the central Plains should lift northward to the 
Great Lakes and bring a low pressure system toward the Appalachian 
Mountains by Sunday night into Monday. The models have been trending 
slower with the passage of this system and the eventual eroding of 
the cool wedge, so rain chances have been increased for Monday and 
Monday night. Clouds and moisture may begin to decrease on Tuesday 
as the flow turns more toward the west.

&&

.AVIATION /08Z WEDNESDAY THROUGH SUNDAY/...
As of 200 AM EDT Wednesday...

     Rainshowers Western Areas This Morning, Otherwise Mostly MVFR
to VFR Conditions Through the TAF Valid Period...

Synopsis: A vigorous upper short wave with a negative tilt was
moving rapidly northward through the Tennessee and Ohio Valley
early this morning. The main dynamics will track northward into
Ohio and west of the RNK forecast area as the system weakens
quickly through the day today. A bad of rainshowers accompanying
this system will skirt through the western/northwestern parts of
the CWA early this morning. East of the Blue Ridge another
morning of fog as light east to southeast marine flow persists
in that region. The fog will lift after 14Z. Showers will
dissipate by 14Z, but widespread MVFR ceilings will be left
throughout the day and into the evening for areas west of the
Blue Ridge with upslope westerly flow. Ceilings/visibilities 
should become VFR east of the Blue Ridge by afternoon with no 
precipitation. Winds will shift to the SW-NW as the upper trough
moves to the northwest of the area today and a weak cold front 
sweeps through from the west.

Ceilings...Look for MVFR ceilings west of the Blue Ridge
throughout much of the TAF valid period, in scattered rain
showers this morning, especially west of the Blue Ridge through
14Z. Indefinite ceilings in fog/low clouds will plague eastern
areas through 14Z with mainly IFR-LIFR ceilings in these areas.
However, after 14Z eastern areas of the CWA should see ceilings
improve to VFR, especially by afternoon.

Visibilities...Mainly VFR to locally MVFR in rain showers
through 14Z west of the Blue Ridge this morning, become mainly 
VFR this afternoon. For areas east of the Blue Ridge, widespread
fog is occurring once again this morning with visibilities
widespread 1/2SM or less east of a LYH-W78 line. Issued an SPS
earlier, but will likely need a DFA for these areas soon.

Winds...East to southeast winds this morning with speeds
10-15kts along/west of the I-77 corridor, generally 5-10kts
elsewhere. Gusts to 20kts possible along/west of the I-77
corridor. Behind the upper trough/front after 15Z, look for SW-W
winds for the most part 8-12kts with gusts to 20kts mainly west
of the Blue Ridge becoming W-NW after 20Z continuing at similar
speeds.

/Confidence Levels in Forecast Parameters/
- Moderate Confidence in Ceilings,
- Moderate Confidence in Visibilities,
- Moderate to High Confidence in Wind Direction and Speed.

Extended Aviation Discussion... 

VFR conditions are expected Thursday through Saturday as low 
clouds dissipate in the mountains and high pressure covers the 
region both at the surface and aloft. However, it should be
noted that a large Canadian high will become anchored over the
northeast through the weekend leading to strong potential for a
wedge set up that will eventually result in increasing clouds
going into the later half of the weekend with increasing
potential for sub-VFR conditions by Sunday into Monday.
Temperatures will cool and periods of light rain and drizzle
will develop early next week as the wedge intensifies and a
short wave lifts through the western half of the area Mon-Tue.

&&

.RNK WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
VA...None.
NC...None.
WV...None.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...RAB
NEAR TERM...RAB/WP
SHORT TERM...AMS
LONG TERM...PHW
AVIATION...RAB
