306 
FXUS61 KRNK 260620
AFDRNK

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Blacksburg VA
220 AM EDT Wed Oct 26 2022

.SYNOPSIS...
Low pressure over the Mississippi Valley will track northeast 
pushing a cold front and showers through the area late tonight 
and Wednesday. High pressure and dry weather follow behind this 
system for Thursday through Saturday. Another low moving from 
the lower Mississippi Valley through the Mid Atlantic region 
will bring a chance of rain for Sunday night through Monday 
night.

&&

.NEAR TERM /THROUGH TODAY/...
As of 700 PM EDT Tuesday...
  
Chance of showers mainly overnight-early Wednesday morning...

Surface low across Illinois will slide northeast to the Great
Lakes by dawn. Main energy passes west of us but enough low
level convergence of moisture will bring showers to the
mountains of SE WV/SW VA as far east as the Blue Ridge
overnight. Watching low clouds advance west from the piedmont
and models are hinting at low clouds/fog across the
Lynchburg/Danville and points east late tonight though not as
foggy, but cannot rule out patchy dense fog.

Latest model trends show slower clearing in the piedmont
Wednesday so lower highs here a couple degrees mainly east of
U.S. 29.

Previous discussion...

500 Mb low moves northeast into the Ohio Valley by Wednesday 
morning. Best vorticity advection and dynamics stay northwest 
of the central Appalachians. Will keep the chance of rain to the
west until after midnight tonight. At 12Z/8AM the front will be
close to a Bluefield to Boone line and by 5PM will be east of 
Danville and Lynchburg.

Dry slot comes in behind the front and precipitation but
moisture below 700MB remains over the mountains through 
Wednesday evening. Winds turn to the northwest behind the front.
The low level jet increases to around 35 knots over the 
mountains in the late afternoon and evening. 6hr pressure rises 
up to 6 MB are forecast too. Will have some wind gusts in the 
forecast for the afternoon and evening.

&&

.SHORT TERM /TONIGHT THROUGH FRIDAY NIGHT/...
As of 100 PM EDT Tuesday...

   Confidence high for cooler temperatures Thursday. 

Once upper trough moves northeast and open wave tracks through the 
Mid Atlantic and New England Wednesday night and Thursday 500 MB 
heights rise and flow stays southwesterly through Friday. 
Closed upper low over the Pacific Northwest dives southwest 
through the Southern Plains by Saturday morning. Models were in 
good agreement with the timing and location of synoptic scale 
features during this time frame. 

Even low level moisture over the mountains dries out on Thursday. 
But slightly cooler 850MB temperatures will keep maximum 
temperatures near normal, despite the abundant sunshine. 

Surface high pressure builds in Wednesday night through Friday, with 
wedging developing Friday and Friday night. As winds veer to the 
east on Friday, clouds will spread into the area from east to
west.

&&

.LONG TERM /SATURDAY THROUGH TUESDAY/...
As of 1230 PM EDT Tuesday...

 Confidence is increasing for cooler weather this weekend with 
 rain early next week.

High pressure will wedge against the eastern slopes of the Blue 
Ridge on Saturday, which should bring an increasing easterly flow to 
advect cooler and moister air from the Atlantic Ocean. The cool 
wedge will persist throughout the weekend, so temperatures have been 
adjusted toward the lower side of model guidance. Meanwhile, an 
upper level low in the central Plains should lift northward to the 
Great Lakes and bring a low pressure system toward the Appalachian 
Mountains by Sunday night into Monday. The models have been trending 
slower with the passage of this system and the eventual eroding of 
the cool wedge, so rain chances have been increased for Monday and 
Monday night. Clouds and moisture may begin to decrease on Tuesday 
as the flow turns more toward the west.

&&

.AVIATION /06Z WEDNESDAY THROUGH SUNDAY/...
As of 200 AM EDT Wednesday...

...Rainshowers Western Areas This Morning, Otherwise Mostly MVFR
to VFR Conditions Through the TAF Valid Period...

Synopsis: A vigorous upper short wave with a negative tilt was
moving rapidly northward through the Tennessee and Ohio Valley
early this morning. The main dynamics will track northward into
Ohio and west of the RNK forecast area as the system weakens
quickly through the day today. A bad of rainshowers accompanying
this system will skirt through the western/northwestern parts of
the CWA early this morning. East of the Blue Ridge another
morning of fog as light east to southeast marine flow persists
in that region. The fog will lift after 14Z. Showers will
dissipate by 14Z, but widespread MVFR ceilings will be left
throughout the day and into the evening for areas west of the
Blue Ridge with upslope westerly flow. Ceilings/visibilities 
should become VFR east of the Blue Ridge by afternoon with no 
precipitation. Winds will shift to the SW-NW as the upper trough
moves to the northwest of the area today and a weak cold front 
sweeps through from the west.

Ceilings...Look for MVFR ceilings west of the Blue Ridge
throughout much of the TAF valid period, in scattered rain
showers this morning, especially west of the Blue Ridge through
14Z. Indefinite ceilings in fog/low clouds will plague eastern
areas through 14Z with mainly IFR-LIFR ceilings in these areas.
However, after 14Z eastern areas of the CWA should see ceilings
improve to VFR, especially by afternoon.

Visibilities...Mainly VFR to locally MVFR in rain showers
through 14Z west of the Blue Ridge this morning, become mainly 
VFR this afternoon. For areas east of the Blue Ridge, widespread
fog is occurring once again this morning with visibilities
widespread 1/2SM or less east of a LYH-W78 line. Issued an SPS
earlier, but will likely need a DFA for these areas soon.

Winds...East to southeast winds this morning with speeds
10-15kts along/west of the I-77 corridor, generally 5-10kts
elsewhere. Gusts to 20kts possible along/west of the I-77
corridor. Behind the upper trough/front after 15Z, look for SW-W
winds for the most part 8-12kts with gusts to 20kts mainly west
of the Blue Ridge becoming W-NW after 20Z continuing at similar
speeds.

/Confidence Levels in Forecast Parameters/
- Moderate Confidence in Ceilings,
- Moderate Confidence in Visibilities,
- Moderate to High Confidence in Wind Direction and Speed.

Extended Aviation Discussion... 

VFR conditions are expected Thursday through Saturday as low 
clouds dissipate in the mountains and high pressure covers the 
region both at the surface and aloft. However, it should be
noted that a large Canadian high will become anchored over the
northeast through the weekend leading to strong potential for a
wedge set up that will eventually result in increasing clouds
going into the later half of the weekend with increasing
potential for sub-VFR conditions by Sunday into Monday.
Temperatures will cool and periods of light rain and drizzle
will develop early next week as the wedge intensifies and a
short wave lifts through the western half of the area Mon-Tue.

&&

.RNK WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
VA...None.
NC...None.
WV...None.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...AMS/WP
NEAR TERM...AMS/WP
SHORT TERM...AMS
LONG TERM...PW
AVIATION...RAB
