725 
FXUS61 KRNK 261053
AFDRNK

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Blacksburg VA
653 AM EDT Wed Oct 26 2022

.SYNOPSIS...
A vigorous area of low pressure aloft will move rapidly north
from the western Tennessee Valley into the Ohio Valley today and
weaken. A large area of surface high pressure will build in its
wake across the Ohio Valley by Thursday then move toward New
England by the end of the week. A few showers will accompany the
low pressure tracking through the Ohio Valley today. Then cooler
air will spread into the region by the weekend as high pressure
sets up to our northeast. A new area of low pressure will track
out of the Southern Plains toward the Ohio Valley during the
first half of next week bringing our next chance for rain.
Temperatures will be near seasonal normals for the next several
days.

&&

.NEAR TERM /THROUGH TONIGHT/...
As of 415 AM EDT Wednesday...
  
...Chance for Rain Showers Western Mountain This Morning,
Otherwise Remaining Mostly Cloudy but Dry Later Today the End of
the Week...

The vigorous negatively tilted upper low which ejected northeast
out of the Southern Plains on Tuesday was located in the Ohio
Valley early this morning. The system is rapidly weakening, but
still supports a band of showers from its center in Ohio
southeast through the Appalachians into the southeast U.S. and
eastern Gulf. This system will continue to weaken today as it
tracks north toward the Great Lakes on the west side of a high
amplitude upper ridge anchored in the western Atlantic. While
the upper low will briefly suppress heights, the western
Atlantic ridge will quickly strengthen again Thu-Fri and remain
anchored along the Mid-Atlantic/Southeast U.S. coast into the
weekend. Surface high pressure will build in the wake of the
departing upper low and move from the Ohio Valley toward New
England by Friday and into the weekend.

Showers will move toward the Blue Ridge this morning all the
while weakening. Little more than clouds and perhaps a light
shower or sprinkle will make it east of the Blue Ridge by
afternoon. That should be the end of any meaningful
precipitation this forecast period. Even in the west, rainfall
amounts are only expected to be 1/10th inch or less.

Areas of fog were observed once again this morning across the 
eastern portions of the Piedmont advected westward from the 
coastal plain by a shallow marine layer and light easterly 
surface flow. Visibilities overall have been more in the 1/2 to
1 mile range this morning as compared to the widespread 0 to 1/4
mile range observed this time yesterday morning. Thus, an SPS so
far has been more appropriate than a Dense Fog Advisory (DFA),
but will continue to monitor and coordinate with our eastern
neighbors.

Temperatures today should be on the order of 5-7 degrees cooler
than those observed Tuesday as clouds temper insolation. 850mb
temperatures, which yesterday peaked around +16C will drop back
toward +10C to +12C today and back toward +8C by Thursday
morning. High temperatures today are expected to be mostly in
the 50s to mid 60s west and in the upper 60s to lower 70s east.
Lows tonight should be mainly 35 to 40 west and 40 to 45 east,
thus remaining above freezing for the most part except locations
like Burkes Garden.

The gusty southeast winds across southwest VA/southeast WV this
morning have subsided and become variable in direction as the
rain showers moved through. Winds will become west to northwest
later this morning with low end gusts possible at times, mainly
west of the Blue Ridge.

/Confidence Levels in Forecast Parameters/
- Moderate Confidence in Temperatures,
- Moderate Confidence in Precipitation Probabilities,
- Moderate Confidence in Wind Direction and Speed.

&&

.SHORT TERM /THURSDAY THROUGH SATURDAY NIGHT/...
As of 445 AM EDT Wednesday...

     Cool and dry most of the weekend...

After an upper trough tracks northeast and past our CWA by Thursday, 
an area of surface high pressure moves east across the Mid-west and 
towards the Great Lakes/southern Canada. By Saturday this high will 
be in a position to wedge us in and cool things down, especially 
east of the Blue Ridge. With 500mb heights rising in response to a 
cutoff  low over the southern plains, and a dry airmass in place, 
not expecting any precipitation through Saturday. Clouds will fill 
in over the east with the wedge. Highs Friday and Saturday will be 
held to the 50s and low 60s.

&&

.LONG TERM /SUNDAY THROUGH TUESDAY/...
As of 445 AM EDT Wednesday...

     Rain returns by early next week...

Deep troughing over the southern and central plains will track 
northeast and into the Midwest/Great Lakes region over the weekend. 
This will bring rain to the CWA as early as Sunday morning, but each 
model cycle continues to trend a few hours slower, so timing is not 
set in stone for this system yet. As this system interacts with the 
increased moisture brought in from return flow as a result of the 
wedge setup, rain showers will impact the entire area and exit with 
the trough near the middle of the week. The wedge will be eroded by 
this low pressure system, and high pressure placed more overhead of 
the Mid-Atlantic will come behind this system. Mostly dry weather to 
end next week. Temperatures will start cool and moderate towards 
normal by the end of the forecast period.

&&

.AVIATION /12Z WEDNESDAY THROUGH SUNDAY/...
As of 645 AM EDT Wednesday...

...Rainshowers Western Areas This Morning, Fog east, Otherwise Mostly MVFR
to VFR Conditions Through the TAF Valid Period...

Synopsis: A vigorous upper short wave with a negative tilt was
moving rapidly northward through the Tennessee and Ohio Valley
early this morning. The main dynamics associated with this system
will track northward into Ohio and west of the RNK forecast area
as the system weakens quickly through the day today. A band of
rainshowers accompanying this system was skirting through the northwestern
half of the CWA early this morning. East of the Blue Ridge another
morning with areas of dense fog as light east to southeast marine flow persists
in that region. However, over all the fog was not as widespread
or as widespread as what was observed Tuesday morning. All of
the fog should dissipate by around 14Z. Showers in the
west/north will also dissipate by mid to late morning with only
a possible sprinkle left by early afternoon. Nonetheless, widespread
MVFR ceilings will be left throughout the day and into the 
evening for areas west of the Blue Ridge with upslope westerly 
flow becoming established behind the passing front. 
Ceilings/visibilities should become VFR east of the Blue Ridge 
by afternoon with no precipitation. Winds will shift to the SW- 
NW as the upper trough moves to the northwest of the area today 
and a weak cold front sweeps through from the west. Fog
potential eastern areas should be less Thursday morning, but
perhaps not zero.

Ceilings...MVFR ceilings will likely persist west of the Blue 
Ridge throughout much of the TAF valid period, in scattered rain
showers this morning and upslope stratus/stratocumulus, 
especially west of the Blue Ridge. Indefinite ceilings in 
fog/low clouds will plague eastern areas through 14Z with mainly
IFR-LIFR ceilings in these areas. However, after 14Z eastern 
areas of the CWA should see ceilings improve to VFR, especially 
by afternoon. Patchy fog late tonight may result in isolated
pockets of sub-VFR ceilings east.

Visibilities...Mainly VFR to locally MVFR in rain showers
through 14Z west of the Blue Ridge this morning, becoming 
mainly VFR this afternoon. For areas east of the Blue Ridge, 
widespread fog, albeit not as dense or widespread as Tuesday 
morning, is occurring once again this morning with visibilities 
widespread 1/2SM to 1SM east of a LYH-W78 line. Issued an SPS 
for these conditions earlier and just updated once again to 
extend until 13Z.

Winds...Any east or southeast winds this morning will become
southwest to west today with speeds increasing to 8-12kts this
afternoon. Gusts to 20kts possible west of the Blue Ridge during
the afternoon/evening evening, diminishing after sunset.

/Confidence Levels in Forecast Parameters/
- Moderate Confidence in Ceilings,
- Moderate Confidence in Visibilities,
- Moderate to High Confidence in Wind Direction and Speed.

Extended Aviation Discussion... 

VFR conditions are expected Thursday through Saturday as low 
clouds dissipate in the mountains and high pressure covers the 
region both at the surface and aloft. However, it should be
noted that a large Canadian high will become anchored over the
northeast through the weekend leading to strong potential for a
wedge set up that will eventually result in increasing clouds
going into the later half of the weekend with increasing
potential for sub-VFR conditions by Sunday into Monday.
Temperatures will cool and periods of light rain and drizzle
will develop early next week as the wedge intensifies and a
short wave lifts through the western half of the area Mon-Tue.

&&

.RNK WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
VA...None.
NC...None.
WV...None.

&&

$$
SYNOPSIS...RAB
NEAR TERM...RAB/WP
SHORT TERM...VFJ
LONG TERM...VFJ
AVIATION...RAB
