920 
FXUS66 KEKA 262133
AFDEKA

AREA FORECAST DISCUSSION
National Weather Service Eureka CA
233 PM PDT Wed Oct 26 2022

.SYNOPSIS...Dry weather with slightly below normal temperatures
are forecast through Friday, and possibly into the weekend. In
addition, frost and freezing temperatures are expected again for 
the interior valleys late tonight. Also, gusty north and northeast
winds are likely across exposed high elevation terrain tonight. 
Cloud cover will increase on Friday as a front approaches from the
northwest. However, the front will most likely stall offshore and
preclude the development of significant rainfall for Northwest 
California. 

&&

.DISCUSSION...An upper-level ridge was developing eastward across
the West Coast this afternoon. Some high-level cloudiness was
spilling southward across NRN CA, but the cloudiness is not
expected to inhibit robust radiational cooling across interior
valleys. Thus, frost and freeze conditions appear
probable during Thursday morning...reference the latest 
advisory/warning products for more information. Otherwise, a 
cold/dense post-frontal airmass located over the NRN Great Basin 
will promote northeasterly winds gusting from 15 to 30 mph across 
exposed ridges tonight. 

After Thursday morning, quasi-zonal midlevel flow will develop
across the West Coast. A frontal boundary will subsequently become
stalled offshore from NWRN CA by Friday, and dissipate as it
drifts toward the EKA CWA Saturday morning. Light shower activity
will be possible with the dissipating front...mainly over Del
Norte and Humboldt Counties. The upper air pattern is then
forecast to amplify going into early next week, which may yield a
trough passage and another chance of rain.

Garner

&&

.AVIATION...An influx of thin higher clouds continued to moved across NW 
California this afternoon. Visual satellite imagery at 1341 LST was 
showing some lower CIGs advecting to the south from Oregon toward 
CEC.  Therefore, Expect possibly Cigs at CEC to dip "briefly into 
MVFR. Patchy haze was reported along the coast...especially at CEC. 
CEC also reported Vis/Cig reduction which should be contributed to 
sea spray. Otherwise, see JJW's previous discussion: "A passing 
front generated light rainfall with ceilings dropping to the MVFR 
category. Conditions are improving this morning as the precipitation 
ends and ceiling heights begin raising to VFR levels. Mid to high 
level clouds will take hold today between periods of clearing. 
Widespread stratus development is not anticipated tonight, though 
lingering surface moisture may create some brief, shallow visibility 
reductions at the terminals." /TA

&&

.MARINE...Winds will strengthen out of the north over the southern
waters this evening through Thursday morning, with peak gusts
approaching 30 kt. Otherwise, a mid period northwest swell is 
filling in, and this will create Small Craft Advisory level seas 
of 10 to 12 feet into early Thursday morning. These sea heights 
will have the best coverage across the outer zones, but may 
briefly pulse into the inners. A slightly longer period northwest
swell will move in on Friday, up to 10 to 12 feet at 12-15 
seconds, and winds will generally be light Thursday afternoon 
through Saturday morning.

&&

.EKA WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CA...
     Frost Advisory from 1 AM to 10 AM PDT Thursday for CAZ102-
     104-109-112-113-115.

     Freeze Warning from 1 AM to 10 AM PDT Thursday for CAZ106-
     107-110-111-114.

NORTHWEST CALIFORNIA COASTAL WATERS...
     Small Craft Advisory until 3 AM PDT Thursday for PZZ455-470.

     Small Craft Advisory until 11 AM PDT Thursday for PZZ475.

&&

$$

Visit us at https://www.weather.gov/eureka

Follow us on Facebook and Twitter at:
https://www.facebook.com/NWSEureka
https://www.twitter.com/NWSEureka

For forecast zone information
see the forecast zone map online:
https://www.weather.gov/images/eka/zonemap.png
