150 
FXUS66 KEKA 261210
AFDEKA

AREA FORECAST DISCUSSION
National Weather Service Eureka CA
510 AM PDT Wed Oct 26 2022

.SYNOPSIS...Dry weather with slightly below normal temperatures
are forecast today through tonight. Frost and freezing
temperatures are expected again for the interior valleys late
tonight. Also, gusty north and northeast winds are expected for 
the exposed terrain today and tonight. Cloud cover will increase 
on Friday as a front approaches from the NW. This front will most 
likely stall offshore, however a few light showers will be 
possible over the weekend, especially for Del Norte and northern 
Humboldt counties. A stronger front from the NW will emerge early 
next week. 

&&

.DISCUSSION...A transient shortwave trough clipped the area
overnight. Some light rain occurred during the evening and
overnight with amounts mostly under 0.10 of an inch. A few 
higher elevations sites, primarily in Del Norte county, had close 
to two tenths. The precipitation has already been ended across 
the area. Some light showers are not completely impossible over 
the elevated terrain of Del Norte county this afternoon. 
Otherwise, dry conditions with slightly below normal temperatures 
and locally gusty north winds are in store for today. The gusty 
winds will be mostly over the ridges, but daytime heating and 
mixing should result in gusts up to 25 mph in the valleys, mainly 
across Lake and Mendocino counties.

Temperatures have been dropping into the lower to mid 30's in the
interior valleys early this morning. Nearly all of these locations
have already had freezing temperatures this week. A frost advisory
remains in effect for these colder valleys. Low temperatures 
tonight will probably be colder with clearer skies and lighter 
valley winds. Temperatures will drop to 32F or less in some of 
the interior valleys again and a freeze warning will need to be 
issued. All of the locations forecast to freeze again tonight have
already had multiple occurrences early this week. Also, gusty 
east and northeasterly winds will likely develop over the higher 
terrain and ridges tonight, but winds over the valleys will decouple.

Dry weather is forecast for Thu as a broad and flat ridge builds 
over the area in response to a trough digging southward from the 
Gulf of AK over the central Pacific. This trough will slowly 
move toward 130W on Fri and then split. An associated frontal
boundary will slowly sag southward down the Oregon coast on 
Friday, but will stall offshore as the trough splits. This 
stalled front will slowly edge closer to the coast this weekend
with precipitable water values (PWATS) increasing Sat and Sun.
Some light rain showers is not completely impossible, especially 
for Del Norte and northern Humboldt counties. 5 to 7 days ago 
deterministic models and ensembles were depicting inches of rain.
We may end up with only a few hundredths, perhaps drizzle once 
westerlies and northerlies redevelop. At best a tenth seems 
possible for Del Norte county on Saturday, otherwise the bulk of 
the forecast area will mostly likely (80% chance) remain dry 
through the weekend. What looks to be a stronger trough will dig 
down from the NW early to mid next week. This will not only bring 
cooling, but we could also have blustery north and/or west winds 
and perhaps greater amounts of precipitation. The evolution of 
this cold air surge is not certain at this time. It will depend 
on the track of the cold core aloft. If farther to our east, 
windy and not much rain. If farther offshore to our west, wetter 
and still windy. We could see a combination of the two as well.

&&

.AVIATION...A passing front generated light rainfall with ceilings 
dropping to the MVFR category. Conditions are improving this morning 
as the precipitation ends and ceiling heights begin raising to VFR 
levels. Mid to high level clouds will take hold today between 
periods of clearing. Widespread stratus development is not 
anticipated tonight, though lingering surface moisture may create 
some brief, shallow visibility reductions at the terminals. 

&&

.MARINE...Winds have turned northerly today after the passing of a 
weak front. A mid period northwest swell is filling in today as 
well, and this will create Small Craft Advisory level seas of 10 to 
12 feet into early Thursday morning. These sea heights will have the 
best coverage in the outer zones, but may briefly pulse into the 
inners. By this evening, northerlies will increase up to 20 kt in 
the southern waters through early Thursday morning. A slightly 
longer period northwest swell will move in on Friday, up to 10 to 12 
feet at 15 seconds.

&&

.EKA WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CA...
     Frost Advisory until 9 AM PDT this morning for CAZ106-107-
     109>111-114-115.

NORTHWEST CALIFORNIA COASTAL WATERS...
     Small Craft Advisory from 9 AM this morning to 3 AM PDT 
     Thursday for PZZ470.

     Small Craft Advisory from 3 PM this afternoon to 3 AM PDT 
     Thursday for PZZ475.

&&

$$

Visit us at https://www.weather.gov/eureka

Follow us on Facebook and Twitter at:
https://www.facebook.com/NWSEureka
https://www.twitter.com/NWSEureka

For forecast zone information
see the forecast zone map online:
https://www.weather.gov/images/eka/zonemap.png
