359 
FXUS65 KRIW 260454
AFDRIW

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Riverton WY
1054 PM MDT Tue Oct 25 2022

.SHORT TERM...(This evening through Wednesday night)
Issued at 310 PM MDT Tue Oct 25 2022

A ~100 kt upper level jet is currently moving east across the area 
as this morning's shortwave begins to pull away. This has been 
producing some snow showers east of the Divide through the 
afternoon, but these will end or move out by sunset. Tonight will be 
dry, with lows in the teens and 20s for the most part. The active 
pattern will continue on Wednesday as the next system arrives. This 
quick trough will bring another round of snow to the west beginning 
after sunrise Wednesday. Accumulations through Wednesday evening 
generally look to stay under 8 inches or so in the western 
mountains, with a couple of inches in the valleys. There is also 
some potential for snow showers Wednesday afternoon and evening 
across southern areas. These showers could even have a bit of 
lightning with it as the strongest forcing moves over during peak 
heating...CAMS seem to be picking up on this potential. As this 
system pulls southeast across the area through Wednesday night, 
models are still hinting at a quick closed circulation passing over 
southwest Wyoming. This could bring some upslope snow east of the 
Divide Wednesday night, so have kept some slight PoPs there through 
Thursday morning.

.LONG TERM...(Thursday through Tuesday)
Issued at 310 PM MDT Tue Oct 25 2022

The last in a series of potent shortwave troughs will move out of 
the forecast area to the south and east Thursday morning.  A few 
lingering showers are possible early in the morning from central 
into south-central WY, but will dissipate quickly to the southeast. 
Skies will clear from NW to SE through the night, but temperatures 
will be on the chilly side as 700mb temps remain in the -4 to -6C 
range through the day for lower elevation highs from the mid 30s to 
near 50.  Winds will be out of the northwest in the morning, but 
will be relatively light to breezy in the afternoon.  Strong winds 
of 40+ mph are possible with this flow pattern around Cody along and 
east of the Absarokas. Clouds over the northwest part of the state 
will move to the east during the afternoon.  Upper-level high 
pressure builds from the west Thursday into Thursday night and will 
likely lead to surface inversions Friday morning for some quite cold 
temps in the western valleys. The surface pressure gradient however 
will keep breezy conditions across central WY for 10-15 mph winds 
through the night from Rock Springs to Casper. Friday should warm 
nicely to near normal temperatures from the mid 40s to mid 50s with 
mostly clear skies. Clouds will start moving over NW WY late in the 
day as a WSW mid-level flow sets up.  Models are showing a weak non-
precipitation trough move through on Saturday to slightly drop the 
temperatures and increase cloudiness.  After this wave moves 
through, the flow becomes more westerly with some moisture coming 
from the west coast.  Clouds will increase but temperatures will 
warm to just above normal.  Moisture looks to increase in the flow 
Monday morning such that light precipitation will start up over NW 
WY.  Surface winds will also increase as the flow starts shifting to 
the SW due to a strengthening trough along the west coast.  Some 
models are pushing the moisture into the western mountains for a few 
inches of snow, though the GFS is digging the trough deeper and 
keeping precipitation more over Idaho.  Either way, Tuesday looks 
pretty windy ahead of the trough with some snow in the western 
mountains.

The latest forecast for Halloween evening is for somewhat warm 
temperatures and breezy winds, with partly cloudy skies.  Some snow 
showers will be over the west and northwest part of the state.

&&

.AVIATION...(For the 06Z TAFS through 06Z Wednesday night)
Issued at 1053 PM MDT Tue Oct 25 2022

VFR conditions will continue for all sites through 12Z Wednesday. 
The next weather system will move into western WY around 18Z, 
bringing lower cigs and vis due to -sn into KJAC, reaching KBPI/KPNA 
around 20Z and KRKS around 22Z. Snow will continue at these sites 
through around 00Z before moving quickly east. A brief period of snow 
showers may also reach KCPR around 00Z, but impacts currently look 
minimal and brief there. Skies behind this system will slowly rise 
overnight Wednesday night, but a midlevel deck may remain for all 
sites through the overnight hours. Most mountains will be mostly 
obscured Wednesday into Wednesday night.

Please see the Aviation Weather Center and/or CWSU ZDV and ZLC for 
the latest information on icing and turbulence forecasts.

&&

.FIRE WEATHER...
Issued AT 310 PM MDT Tue Oct 25 2022

Snow showers across eastern areas will end this evening, with mainly 
dry conditions expected overnight. The next system will arrive 
across the west after sunrise Wednesday. This will bring another 
quick round of snow to the west, with a couple of inches expected in 
the valleys through Wednesday evening. Isolated snow showers are 
also likely across southern areas Wednesday afternoon and evening. 
As snow ends across these areas Wednesday night, there will be a 
chance for snow showers east of the Divide through Thursday morning. 
Otherwise, cool and breezy conditions are expected Wednesday 
afternoon, especially across the west and from Rock Springs through 
Casper. Thursday afternoon through the weekend looks to be dry with 
mainly seasonal temperatures.

&&

.RIW WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
NONE.
&&

$$

SHORT TERM...Myers
LONG TERM...McDonald
AVIATION...Straub
FIRE WEATHER...Myers
