622 
FXUS65 KRIW 261751
AFDRIW

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Riverton WY
1151 AM MDT Wed Oct 26 2022

.SHORT TERM...(This afternoon through Thursday evening)
Issued at 1145 AM MDT Wed Oct 26 2022

A fast moving storm system over ID is approaching the Cowboy State 
this morning. Snow showers have reached far western portions and 
impact areas west of the Divide through the afternoon. Only a few 
inches are expected from this system; 2 to 4 inches in the western 
mountains and 1 to 2 inches in the western valleys. The rest of the 
area west of the Divide will range between a trace to 1 inch through 
this evening. West to northwest winds, with gusts of 30 to 40 mph, 
will occur over southern portions this afternoon as the system 
approaches. Wind gusts will decrease to 25 to 30 mph this evening 
and continue through the night. 

Snow then moves over the Divide in the Wind River Basin after 
sunset, as a mid level circulation associated with the storm moves 
over this area. Possible snowfall amounts will be variable as a 
result, depending on the actual course of this low. For now, Lander 
and the east slopes of the Wind River Mountains have the best 
chances for snow. However, we are only expecting trace to half inch 
amounts. Northwest winds will increase in the Wind River Basin after 
00Z this evening as well, as the mid level circulation makes its way 
over the area. Gusts up to 35 mph will occur through 06Z. Snow will 
end over far western portions after 06Z Thursday, as snow continues 
over the Wind River Basin, Wind River Mountains and the Green 
Mountains/Rattlesnake Range. This snow will end after sunrise 
Thursday morning. 

Dry and cool afternoon temperatures, with generally light winds and 
clear skies, will occur Thursday, as a shortwave ridge builds over 
the region in the wake of today's system. Afternoon highs will be
about 5 to 10 degrees below normal. Gusty winds will occur 
Thursday afternoon in isolated locations like Cody, Powell and 
Crowheart. Winds will increase over the Wind Corridor east of the 
Divide Thursday night. 700mb temperatures will increase to 0C, as 
a result of this ridge. This will strengthen low level inversions 
Thursday night, trapping the cold air already in place. However, 
temperatures in the Wind corridor will likely moderate toward the 
freezing mark, as a result of the increased winds.

.LONG TERM...Thursday night through Tuesday
Issued at 359 AM MDT Wed Oct 26 2022

An upper level ridge shifts over towards Wyoming from the west 
Thursday night. This will bring warmer (around seasonable) 
temperatures of 40s and 50s for Friday. The sky will remain mostly 
sunny through the day. Clouds look to increase from northwestern 
Wyoming towards the southeast through the afternoon as a small 
disturbance in an approaching trough passes through. Clouds stick 
around through Sunday, but temperatures will remain near or just 
above normal with no precipitation expected through the weekend. 
Breezy afternoon winds for central areas and Rock Springs to Casper 
Friday through Sunday is forecasted as well due to a tightening 
pressure gradient between the ridge and an approaching trough near 
the Pacific Northwest. 

Nothing too spooky come Halloween. A trough carrying Pacific 
moisture heads towards Wyoming for Halloween Monday. Precipitation 
chances begin for northwestern areas Monday morning, with better 
chances after noon. By evening, the northwest will see snow chances, 
with elsewhere seeing partly cloudy skies. Breezy to windy 
conditions for Halloween evening ahead of a Tuesday system. 
Precipitation chances increase into Tuesday as the trough works 
through, mainly impacting the western half of the CWA and bringing 
windy conditions across the area.

&&

.AVIATION...For the 18Z TAFS through 18Z Thursday
Issued at 1134 AM MDT Wed Oct 26 2022

VFR conditions will continue for all sites east of the Divide. 
The next weather system is already moving into western WY, 
bringing lower cigs and vis due to snow in KJAC, reaching 
KBPI/KPNA around 19Z and KRKS around 21Z. Snow will continue at 
these sites through around 02Z before ending. A brief period of 
snow showers may also reach KCPR around 03Z, but impacts currently
look minimal as snow showers will linger in the area overnight. 
KLND and KRIW may see some light snow after 00Z through about 11Z.
Winds will pick up into the evening with gusts around 20 to 25 
knots at some terminals, which may lower vis due to any blowing 
snow. Skies behind this system will slowly rise tonight, but a mid
level cloud deck may remain for all sites through the overnight 
hours. Mountains will be mostly obscured today and tonight, before
scattering out toward the end of the TAF period.

Please see the Aviation Weather Center and/or CWSU ZDV and ZLC for 
the latest information on icing and turbulence forecasts.

&&

.FIRE WEATHER...
Issued AT 1145 AM MDT Wed Oct 26 2022

Snow will occur west of the Divide this afternoon and ending
around midnight. Snowfall amounts will be highest over far western
portions, with 2 to 4 inches in the mountains and 1 to 2 inches in
the western valleys. West to northwest winds, with gusts of 30 to
40 mph, will occur over the south this afternoon, decreasing to 
gusts of 25 to 30 mph this evening. Snow will develop over the 
Wind River Basin tonight and end after sunrise Thursday morning.
Dry conditions and mostly light winds will be in place Thursday,
with southwest winds increasing over zones 280/289 Thursday night. 

&&

.RIW WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...NONE. 

&&

$$

SHORT TERM...LaVoie
LONG TERM...Wittmann 
AVIATION...Dziewaltowski
FIRE WEATHER...LaVoie
