951 
FXUS65 KRIW 261956
AFDRIW

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Riverton WY
156 PM MDT Wed Oct 26 2022

.SHORT TERM...(This evening through Thursday night)
Issued at 1145 AM MDT Wed Oct 26 2022

A fast moving storm system over ID is approaching the Cowboy State 
this morning. Snow showers have reached far western portions and 
impact areas west of the Divide through the afternoon. Only a few 
inches are expected from this system; 2 to 4 inches in the western 
mountains and 1 to 2 inches in the western valleys. The rest of the 
area west of the Divide will range between a trace to 1 inch through 
this evening. West to northwest winds, with gusts of 30 to 40 mph, 
will occur over southern portions this afternoon as the system 
approaches. Wind gusts will decrease to 25 to 30 mph this evening 
and continue through the night. 

Snow then moves over the Divide in the Wind River Basin after 
sunset, as a mid level circulation associated with the storm moves 
over this area. Possible snowfall amounts will be variable as a 
result, depending on the actual course of this low. For now, Lander 
and the east slopes of the Wind River Mountains have the best 
chances for snow. However, we are only expecting trace to half inch 
amounts. Northwest winds will increase in the Wind River Basin after 
00Z this evening as well, as the mid level circulation makes its way 
over the area. Gusts up to 35 mph will occur through 06Z. Snow will 
end over far western portions after 06Z Thursday, as snow continues 
over the Wind River Basin, Wind River Mountains and the Green 
Mountains/Rattlesnake Range. This snow will end after sunrise 
Thursday morning. 

Dry and cool afternoon temperatures, with generally light winds and 
clear skies, will occur Thursday, as a shortwave ridge builds over 
the region in the wake of today's system. Afternoon highs will be
about 5 to 10 degrees below normal. Gusty winds will occur 
Thursday afternoon in isolated locations like Cody, Powell and 
Crowheart. Winds will increase over the Wind Corridor east of the 
Divide Thursday night. 700mb temperatures will increase to 0C, as 
a result of this ridge. This will strengthen low level inversions 
Thursday night, trapping the cold air already in place. However, 
temperatures in the Wind corridor will likely moderate toward the 
freezing mark, as a result of the increased winds.

.LONG TERM...(Friday through Wednesday)
Issued at 155 PM MDT Wed Oct 26 2022

Upper-level high pressure will be over Wyoming Friday morning with
the ridge axis extending from central Utah to northeast WY. The
surface pressure gradient from SE to NW will help surface wind
from southern into central WY be breezy of 10-15 mph earlier than
usual. Skies will be mostly clear with clouds returning to 
northwest WY in the afternoon. Temperatures will be near normal in
the 40s and 50s, with Buffalo near 60. Southwest winds will 
increase during the afternoon from southwest into central WY with 
gusts 25 to 30 mph. A couple of weak shortwave troughs in mid- 
level flow will approach and move through the area Saturday and 
Sunday, primarily increasing clouds and dropping temperatures a 
couple of degrees. Minimum temperatures Sunday morning should be 
lower than the previous morning due to some cooler air moving in 
as the flow turns more northwesterly. The flow becomes more zonal 
later Sunday into Monday, increasing moisture and clouds, and 
bringing light showers to the far NW corner of the state. With a 
more active pattern and tighter gradient, winds will increase 
Monday. A stronger storm system/pattern is then poised to impact 
the area Tuesday into Wednesday. Tuesday should see stronger 
southwesterly flow and warmer temps and the trough axis deepens 
from Oregon into California. The trough then moves into Nevada 
Wednesday and significantly increases diffluent moist flow in the 
Great Basin and eventually western WY. The GFS is much stronger 
and slower with the system compared to the ECMWF. The Canadian
global model is offering a solution in the middle of the others. So
certainty and details are quite mixed at this point. Regardless, 
Monday into Tuesday looks to be quite windy, and Tuesday into 
Wednesday should see increasing precipitation across western WY.

&&

.AVIATION...For the 18Z TAFS through 18Z Thursday
Issued at 1134 AM MDT Wed Oct 26 2022

VFR conditions will continue for all sites east of the Divide. 
The next weather system is already moving into western WY, 
bringing lower cigs and vis due to snow in KJAC, reaching 
KBPI/KPNA around 19Z and KRKS around 21Z. Snow will continue at 
these sites through around 02Z before ending. A brief period of 
snow showers may also reach KCPR around 03Z, but impacts currently
look minimal as snow showers will linger in the area overnight. 
KLND and KRIW may see some light snow after 00Z through about 11Z.
Winds will pick up into the evening with gusts around 20 to 25 
knots at some terminals, which may lower vis due to any blowing 
snow. Skies behind this system will slowly rise tonight, but a mid
level cloud deck may remain for all sites through the overnight 
hours. Mountains will be mostly obscured today and tonight, before
scattering out toward the end of the TAF period.

Please see the Aviation Weather Center and/or CWSU ZDV and ZLC for 
the latest information on icing and turbulence forecasts.

&&

.FIRE WEATHER...
Issued AT 1145 AM MDT Wed Oct 26 2022

Snow will occur west of the Divide this afternoon and ending
around midnight. Snowfall amounts will be highest over far western
portions, with 2 to 4 inches in the mountains and 1 to 2 inches in
the western valleys. West to northwest winds, with gusts of 30 to
40 mph, will occur over the south this afternoon, decreasing to 
gusts of 25 to 30 mph this evening. Snow will develop over the 
Wind River Basin tonight and end after sunrise Thursday morning.
Dry conditions and mostly light winds will be in place Thursday,
with southwest winds increasing over zones 280/289 Thursday night. 

&&

.RIW WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...NONE. 

&&

$$

SHORT TERM...LaVoie
LONG TERM...McDonald
AVIATION...Dziewaltowski
FIRE WEATHER...LaVoie
