588 
FXUS65 KRIW 261735
AFDRIW

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Riverton WY
1135 AM MDT Wed Oct 26 2022

.SHORT TERM...(Today through Thursday)
Issued at 350 AM MDT Wed Oct 26 2022

Quiet weather is observed over the region with mainly high clouds.
Some lower clouds are forming over NW WY as of 330 AM, and other 
batch of mid and high clouds are streaming into the west from 
Idaho. Temperatures are cold with teens and 20s. A few places are 
in the 30s where a slight breeze is occurring. Forecast issue
is the weather system that moves into the region this afternoon
through early Thursday morning. Snow will develop in the west and
southwest late this morning or early afternoon, continuing into
tonight, before ending after midnight. Snowfall looks to be 1 to
2 inches in the valleys of the west and 3 to 6 inches in the
western mountains. SPS has been issued for the western mountains.
There is a low probability of lightning and thunder in the west 
and southwest this afternoon. Forecast lapse rates are 7 to 8 
degrees/kilometer. Have not put this into the grids for now, but 
it could happen if enough instability can get generated. The 
northern zones east of the divide look to stay mostly dry today 
and tonight. High temperatures today will be in the 40s to around 
50 east of the divide, with 30s to around 40 in the west.

In central WY, scattered light snow is expected tonight. With the
predicted track of the mid level circulation, this supports some
snow development in the Wind River basin late this evening through
12Z Thursday, as well as the east slopes of the Wind River mountains.
Have added POPS and snowfall to this area. Low temperatures
tonight will be in the teens and 20s. 

Thursday should be dry over the area with any light snow in the
central ending by mid morning. Decreasing clouds with plenty of
late morning and afternoon sunshine. Locally breezy in the
afternoon in the central wind corridor. Highs will be in the 40s
to lower 50s east of the divide, with 30s to lower 40s in the
west. 

.LONG TERM...(Thursday night through Tuesday)
Issued at 350 AM MDT Wed Oct 26 2022

An upper level ridge shifts over towards Wyoming from the west 
Thursday night. This will bring warmer (around seasonable) 
temperatures of 40s and 50s for Friday. The sky will remain mostly 
sunny through the day. Clouds look to increase from northwestern 
Wyoming towards the southeast through the afternoon as a small 
disturbance in an approaching trough passes through. Clouds stick 
around through Sunday, but temperatures will remain near or just 
above normal with no precipitation expected through the weekend. 
Breezy afternoon winds for central areas and Rock Springs to Casper 
Friday through Sunday is forecasted as well due to a tightening 
pressure gradient between the ridge and an approaching trough near 
the Pacific Northwest. 

Nothing too spooky come Halloween. A trough carrying Pacific 
moisture heads towards Wyoming for Halloween Monday. Precipitation 
chances begin for northwestern areas Monday morning, with better 
chances after noon. By evening, the northwest will see snow chances, 
with elsewhere seeing partly cloudy skies. Breezy to windy 
conditions for Halloween evening ahead of a Tuesday system. 
Precipitation chances increase into Tuesday as the trough works 
through, mainly impacting the western half of the CWA and bringing 
windy conditions across the area.

&&

.AVIATION...(For the 18Z TAFS through 18Z Thursday) 
Issued at 1134 AM MDT Wed Oct 26 2022

VFR conditions will continue for all sites east of the divide. The 
next weather system is already moving into western WY, bringing 
lower cigs and vis due to snow in KJAC, reaching KBPI/KPNA around 
19z and KRKS around 21Z. Snow will continue at these sites through 
around 02Z before ending. A brief period of snow showers may also 
reach KCPR around 03Z, but impacts currently look minimal as snow 
showers will linger in the area overnight. KLND and KRIW may see 
some light snow after 00Z through about 11Z. Winds will pick up into 
the evening with gusts around 20 to 25 knots at some terminals, 
which may lower vis due to any blowing snow. Skies behind this 
system will slowly rise tonight, but a mid level cloud deck may 
remain for all sites through the overnight hours. Mountains will be 
mostly obscured tonight and tomorrow.

Please see the Aviation Weather Center and/or CWSU ZDV and ZLC for 
the latest information on icing and turbulence forecasts.

&&

.FIRE WEATHER...
Issued at 350 AM MDT Wed Oct 26 2022

Snow will move into the west and southwest zones late this morning
through tonight. The snow will be ending in these areas after
midnight. Scattered light snow is possible in the central zones
tonight through early Thursday morning. Thursday will be dry for
the region. Friday through Sunday looks dry for the area with 
milder temperatures and breezy to windy areas. 

&&

.RIW WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
NONE.
&&

$$

SHORT TERM...AR
LONG TERM...Wittmann 
AVIATION...Dziewaltowski
FIRE WEATHER...AR
