761 
FXUS62 KKEY 260801
AFDKEY

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Key West FL
401 AM EDT Wed Oct 26 2022

...New DISCUSSION, MARINE, AVIATION...

.DISCUSSION...
Issued at 358 AM EDT Wed Oct 26 2022

A very quiet but muggy overnight across the Florida Keys. Winds
have come down from earlier in the evening as expected. Thanks to
these slackening winds and mostly clear skies, temperatures have
responded with some locations falling into the lower 70s. Over the
interior of the larger islands, such as Big Pine Key, temperatures
even dipped below 70 degrees. 

Mean layer ridging anchored near the southwest corner of the Gulf
of Mexico will help to steer a potent upper level low centered
over the Lower Ohio River Valley to the northeast and well away 
from our area. A surface reflection will also move in the same 
general direction, orphaning a cold front later this morning. Said
front is currently draped across the FL Panhandle and extends 
southwest into the Bay of Campeche. This front will slide 
southeast and slowly decay before reaching the Florida Keys. What 
residual moisture left over may be enough for a few showers later
this evening and into Thursday. Otherwise, the frontal boundary 
will act to weaken the pressure gradient across our area today, 
allowing for a period of light and variable winds through 
Thursday.

The aforementioned ridge will hold generally in place through the
forecast period, helping to steer the next Pacific Low away from
the southeast U.S.. As a result, there remains no clear sign of 
any frontal passage for the Florida Keys in the next 5 to 7 days. 
Meanwhile, at the surface, a high pressure cell will quickly move 
out of the Central Plains and into the New England States towards 
the end of the week. As it moves into the Northeast it will build 
equatorward allowing for winds to clock back around to the 
northeast and east and help draw moisture into the boundary 
layer. This may be enough to warrant slightly above normal PoPs in
the extended period. Daytime temperatures will hold in the mid 
80s with overnight lows gradually warming back into the mid 70s. 
Likewise, dew points will be on the rise, reaching into the mid 
70s.

&&

.MARINE...
Issued at 358 AM EDT Wed Oct 26 2022

There are no watches, warnings, or advisories currently in effect
for the coastal waters of the Florida Keys. Light breezes will 
prevail across the Florida Keys today through Thursday. Northeast
to east breezes will freshen Thursday night with a return to
gentle to moderate breezes by Friday and Friday night and then 
persist into Saturday night. Breezes may diminish once again 
Sunday and Sunday night. 

.COASTAL FLOODING...
King tides are back across the Keys, with the highest predicted
tides expected today through Monday night. Coastal Flood 
Advisories may be required, with some secondary streets inundated 
with saltwater at the times of high tide (after midnight). Also, 
on the back side of the high tides there will be super-low low 
tides, with stronger than usual ebb currents (outgoing). Just as 
the predicted high tides abate, a restricted Gulf Stream east of 
the Carolinas will result in several more days (into middle or 
late next week) of high tides. 

&&

.AVIATION...
(06Z TAFS)
Issued at 358 AM EDT Wed Oct 26 2022

VFR conditions will prevail at both EYW and MTH island terminals 
through 12z Thursday morning, with near-nil rain chances. Light 
northeasterly near-surface winds will become variable after 18z 
today, continuing through the balance of the TAF period. 

&&

.CLIMATE...

On this day in 2010, the daily record rainfall of 3.44" was 
recorded at Key West. Rainfall records in Key West date back to 
1871.

&&

.PRELIMINARY POINT TEMPS/POPS...
Key West  84  72  84  71 /   0  10  10  10 
Marathon  85  71  86  70 /   0  10  10  10 

&&

.KEY WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
FL...None.
GM...None.
&&

$$

Public/Marine/Fire...LIW
Aviation/Nowcasts....BT
Data Acquisition.....BT

Visit us on the web at weather.gov/key

Follow us on Facebook and Twitter at:
www.facebook.com/nwskeywest
www.twitter.com/nwskeywest
