980 
FXUS62 KKEY 261804
AFDKEY

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Key West FL
204 PM EDT Wed Oct 26 2022

...New DISCUSSION, MARINE, AVIATION...

.DISCUSSION...
Issued at 158 PM EDT Wed Oct 26 2022
A fair and fine weather pattern has set in across the Florida Keys
and adjacent coastal waters. Mostly sunny skies prevail with
current air temperatures in most Keys island communities in the
lower 80s, with dewpoint temperatures down a few degrees from this
morning (currently mid to upper 60s). Breezes are light and
variable across most of the service area, and no precipitation
echoes are evident anywhere across the service area. Deep ridging
is in control, the atmosphere is dry and stable aloft, and this is
expected to be the case for quite awhile.

A look ahead reveals that deep ridging will govern all large-scale
flow at this location/latitude. Synoptic storm tracks will remain
well west, north, or east of the Florida Keys, although gradient
flow is expected to pick up some toward the weekend. Regardless,
rain chances should remain nil in the near term, and only slight
in the long term, with nil thunder chances, plenty of sun, and
warm autumn weather. 
&&

.MARINE...
Issued at 158 PM EDT Wed Oct 26 2022
No watches, warnings, or advisories are in effect for Florida Keys
coastal waters. Light breezes will prevail across the Keys 
coastal waters tonight through Thursday. Northeast to east Breezes
will then freshen to gentle to moderate beginning Thursday night.
Expect gentle to moderate breezes to persist through Saturday 
night before slackening back to light to gentle by Sunday.
&&

.AVIATION...
(18Z TAFS)
Issued at 158 PM EDT Wed Oct 26 2022
VFR conditions and light winds will prevail at both the EYW and MTH 
terminals through tonight. Few clouds may move over the terminals, 
however, no impacts are anticipated. Near surface winds will be out 
of the northeast, becoming variables at times. 
&&

.CLIMATE...
On this day in 2010, the daily record rainfall of 3.44" was recorded 
at Key West. Rainfall records in Key West date back to 1871.
&&

.KEY WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
FL...None.
GM...None.
&&

$$

Public/Marine/Fire...Kasper
Aviation/Nowcasts....KR
Data Acquisition.....KR

Visit us on the web at weather.gov/key

Follow us on Facebook and Twitter at:
www.facebook.com/nwskeywest
www.twitter.com/nwskeywest
