575 
FXUS61 KBOX 261936
AFDBOX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Boston/Norton MA
336 PM EDT Wed Oct 26 2022

.SYNOPSIS...
A cold front sweeps across the region tonight followed by dry and 
mild weather Thursday although a bit breezy. A large high pressure 
builds in from the north Friday into the weekend bringing seasonable 
days with a moderating trend, but chilly nights. Frost/Freeze headlines 
possible for our still active zones Friday and/or Saturday night. A 
warm but unsettled pattern redevelops Monday and will extend into 
the middle of next week bringing a few chances of rain to the 
region. 

&&

.NEAR TERM /UNTIL 6 AM THURSDAY MORNING/...
Mid level shortwave across the eastern Lakes lifts NE and passes to 
the NW early this evening. Scattered showers have developed in 
eastern PA and central NY and a few of these showers may move into 
western MA/CT through early this evening. Otherwise, dry conditions 
expected tonight. A weak cold front moves across the region this 
evening followed by drying in the column as boundary layer winds 
shift to west. This will gradually clear out the fog and stratus 
tonight from west to east but it may take until daybreak over 
Cape/Islands. It will still be mild for late October with lows 
ranging from upper 40s/lower 50s western New Eng to mid/upper 
50s near the coast. 

&&

.SHORT TERM /6 AM THURSDAY MORNING THROUGH THURSDAY NIGHT/...
Thursday... 

Secondary cold front moves across the region in the morning followed 
by much drier airmass as PWATs drop below 0.25". Any lingering 
clouds early will give way to lots of sunshine. The colder temps 
aloft will be lagging well to the north and west so expect another 
mild day with highs mid/upper 60s in the coastal plain and upper 
50s/lower 60s higher terrain. Dewpoints will be falling through
the 40s and into the 30s. Increasing pressure gradient will 
result in somewhat breezy conditions with gusts to 25 mph at 
times.

Thursday night...

Large high pres builds to the north bringing clear skies. It will be 
a chilly night, but there is enough gradient to keep a modest north 
wind which will limit the extent of radiational cooling. As a 
result, we followed the NBM which yields lows in the 30s, except 
lower 40s near the immediate coast and Cape/Islands where gusty N/NE 
winds will prevail. 

&&

.LONG TERM /FRIDAY THROUGH WEDNESDAY/...
Highlights...

* Shallow cold air settles into southern New England for the 
  weekend. Frost/Freeze advisories likely for our remaining active 
  zones Friday and/or Saturday night. 

* Sunny skies and gradual warming trend through the weekend

* Warm but unsettled weather returns for the workweek, with a few 
  chances for rain Monday - Wednesday

Friday through Sunday...

A 1030 high settles over southern England behind Thrusday's cold 
frontal passage. Clear, sunny skies will persist for much of the 
three day period. 850mb temperatures will be quite misleading this 
weekend as at first glance 850mb temperature anomalies of up to +10C 
would signal the potential for record warmth. However, shallow cold 
air will rotated in around the high, and with the tendency of 
shallow mixing this late into October, we will be unable to tap into 
the warm air aloft. Even with shallow "cold" air, we are still 
looking at seasonable highs in the 50s Friday, gradually warming 
into the upper 50s to low 60s Sunday. 

Dewpoints will crash into the 20s, away from the coast, behind the 
cold front. This, combined with near perfect radiational cooling 
conditions will allow temperatures to plummet Friday night. NBM 
guidance was too warm, with lows in the low and mid 30s area wide so 
straight CONSMOS guidance was used to populate lows Friday and 
Saturday night. Given the general warming trend this weekend, thanks 
to increasing dewpoints and a broken blanket of cloud cover Saturday 
night, thinking Friday night will be the coldest of the two, with 
Frost/Freeze headlines likely for our still-active zones. 

East/northeast flow develops Saturday night, which allows dewpoints 
to creep back towards 50F across Cape Cod. This may lead to patchy 
fog formation early Sunday given dewpoint depressions less than 2F. 

Monday and Tuesday...

A 500mb trough begins to slide into southern New England on Monday 
bringing a warmer, unsettled pattern with it. A warm front lifting 
over our area on Monday will bring the chance for rain, but the 
timing of rain chances is still up for debate. The GFS brings rain 
to our area earlier in the day Monday than the ECMWF, but hints at 
less total precip; in general, less than 0.5" of QPF expected. 
Alternatively, the ECMWF signals for pockets of 1"+ of QPF, but 
predicts a precip onset time after 00Z Tuesday. Trick or treaters 
will need to keep on eye on the forecast to see if they should 
incorporate a raincoat into their costumes! 

A potential low pressure system swinging through late Tuesday or 
early Wednesday brings next week's second shot for rain. PWAT 
anomalies early next week grow to as high as 250% of normal 
indicating that the Tuesday/Wednesday burst of precip has the 
potential to pack quite a punch! Temperatures are again expected to 
be mild as dewpoints surge back towards 60. Both the 6-10 and 8-14 
day CPC outlooks highlight a 70-90% chance for above normal 
temperatures. 

&&

.AVIATION /20Z WEDNESDAY THROUGH MONDAY/...
Forecaster Confidence Levels:

Low - less than 30 percent. 
Medium - 30 to 60 percent. 
High - greater than 60 percent.

18z TAF update...

Through 00z...

Widespread IFR/LIFR conditions in stratus and patchy fog but 
improving conditions toward 00z in western New Eng as winds 
turn SW. 

Tonight...High Confidence in trends but timing more uncertain. 

IFR/LIFR in low clouds and patchy fog will gradually improve to
VFR this evening in the CT valley and after midnight elsewhere,
except Cape/Islands lower clouds and fog patches may linger.  
Light SW winds becoming W.

Thursday...High Confidence.

VFR. NW wind gusts 20-25 kt developing by afternoon.

Thursday Night...High Confidence.

VFR. N winds 5-15 kt with gusts to 25 kt over Cape/Islands. 

KBOS Terminal...High confidence in improving vsbys this evening
as winds turn SW. IFR cigs lingering but should become VFR after
midnight.  

KBDL Terminal...High confidence in improving conditions to VFR
tonight. Exact timing more uncertain. 
 
Outlook /Friday through Monday/...

Friday: VFR. Breezy. 

Friday Night: VFR. Breezy. Patchy frost.

Saturday: VFR. 

Saturday Night: VFR. Patchy frost.

Sunday: VFR. 

Sunday Night: Mainly VFR, with areas MVFR possible. Chance
SHRA.

Monday: Mainly MVFR, with areas IFR possible. Chance SHRA.

&&

.MARINE...
Forecaster Confidence Levels:

Low - less than 30 percent. 
Medium - 30 to 60 percent. 
High - greater than 60 percent.

Tonight through Thursday night...High Confidence.

Tonight... Light winds become SW 10-15 kt. Seas mostly below SCA 
thresholds but 5 ft swell will develop over outer waters. Poor vsbys 
in areas of dense fog will improve overnight.

Thursday and Thursday night... Increasing NW wind, especially 
Thu afternoon gradually shifting to N/NE Thu night. Gusts to 25 
kt developing over eastern MA waters Thu afternoon, with 25-30 
kt gusts expanding to all waters Thu night. SCA issued for all 
waters. 

Outlook /Friday through Monday/...

Friday: Low risk for Small Craft Advisory winds with gusts up
to 25 kt. Rough seas up to 8 ft. 

Friday Night through Saturday: Winds less than 25 kt. Seas up
to 5 ft. 

Saturday Night: Winds less than 25 kt. Areas of seas
approaching 5 ft. 

Sunday: Winds less than 25 kt. Seas locally approaching 5 ft. 

Sunday Night: Winds less than 25 kt. Areas of seas approaching
5 ft. Chance of rain showers. 

Monday: Winds less than 25 kt. Seas up to 5 ft. Chance of rain
showers. 

&&

.BOX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
MA...None.
RI...None.
MARINE...Small Craft Advisory from 2 PM to 10 PM EDT Thursday for 
     ANZ230.
     Small Craft Advisory from 2 PM Thursday to 8 AM EDT Friday for 
     ANZ231-251.
     Small Craft Advisory from 4 PM Thursday to 8 AM EDT Friday for 
     ANZ232>237.
     Small Craft Advisory from 2 AM Thursday to 8 AM EDT Friday for 
     ANZ250-254-255.
     Small Craft Advisory from 8 AM Thursday to 8 AM EDT Friday for 
     ANZ256.

&&

$$
SYNOPSIS...KJC/KS
NEAR TERM...KJC
SHORT TERM...KJC
LONG TERM...KS
AVIATION...KJC/KS
MARINE...KJC/KS
