970 
FXUS61 KBOX 260554
AFDBOX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Boston/Norton MA
154 AM EDT Wed Oct 26 2022

.SYNOPSIS...

Showers will increase in coverage overnight into Wednesday, as 
low pressure backs in from the ocean with tropical moisture 
surging into New England. Mild conditions Thursday are replaced 
by brisk and cooler weather Thursday night into Friday, behind a
backdoor cold front. Large sprawling high pressure provides 
very pleasant weather this weekend, with seasonable afternoons 
and chilly nights, along with light winds. Mild and somewhat 
humid weather returns early next week, along with a risk for 
scattered showers.

&&

.NEAR TERM /UNTIL 6 AM THIS MORNING/...
1035 PM Update...

* Bands of showers become more numerous overnight with areas of
  fog and unusual muggy conditions for late October

Previous forecast is on track. Surface low well southeast the 
region was allowing tropical moisture to stream northward into 
southern New England. Pwats climbing to between 1.5 and 2 inches
coupled with a modest forcing will result in bands of showers 
becoming more numerous overnight. Given the tropical 
environment in place some of these showers may contain brief 
downpours too with perhaps a rumble or two of thunder by
daybreak.

The other concern will continue to be areas of fog and drizzle.
Some of the fog will be dense at times especially towards the 
coast. Visibility will fluctuate at times and briefly improve in
any of the heavier showers. However, outside of the showers 
visibility may drop to near zero and that is evident especially 
along the eastern MA coast right now. Dense Fog Advisory 
continues across this region through 7 am and will continue to 
monitor trends in case it needs to be expanded further 
northwest. 

It will also remain quite mild and muggy overnight especially
for late October standards. Most locations will see their 
temperatures and dewpoints remain 60+ right through daybreak.

&&

.SHORT TERM /6 AM THIS MORNING THROUGH 6 PM THURSDAY/...
Wednesday...

Anomalous PWAT plume increases further with 2" PWATs approaching the 
outer Cape and 1.5" back to western MA. Shortwave within the 
southerly flow aloft lifts across the region which will bring more 
showers and isolated t-storms with locally heavy rainfall possible.
It's tough to pin down exactly where axis of heavier showers will 
set up. It could be anywhere in SNE but favored across eastern MA 
closest to the high PWATs to the east. Another mild and humid day 
with highs mid 60s to near 70 with dewpoints in the 60s again. 

Wednesday night...

Low pres east of Cape Cod lifts to the north and de-amplifying 
shortwave lifting to north and west will send a cold front across 
SNE. Any lingering showers will end in the evening with partial 
clearing developing overnight as much drier air moves in from the 
west. Lows will range through the 50s.

&&

.LONG TERM /THURSDAY NIGHT THROUGH TUESDAY/...
Highlights...

* Beautiful, warm weather Thursday with sunshine and temps about 10 
  degs above than normal!

* Large sprawling high pressure for Fri & the weekend, supporting 
  dry weather and seasonable temperatures

* Mild & somewhat humid conditions return early next week, along 
  with scattered showers

Thursday...

Beautiful weather ahead of an approaching backdoor cold front. Not 
expecting any precip, as models show rapid column drying as PWATs 
crash from west to east thru the day. NW boundary layer flow ahead 
of the front, combined with warm 925 mb temps of +8C west to +12C 
southeast, will support highs in the upper 60s to lower 70s, with 
warmest readings in the downslope regions of RI and eastern MA.
Given warm temps aloft and NW blyr winds, derived max temps from
NBM 75 percentile dataset.  NW blyr winds will also dry out 
surface dew pts into the upper 40s to mid 50s in the afternoon. 
Just absolutely a beautiful late Oct day, enjoy! 

Thursday night/Friday...

Post frontal behind backdoor cold front. Shallow cool airmass 
overspreads the entire region on NE flow, resulting in temps much 
cooler than Thu, but only at or slightly cooler than normal, with 
highs mid to upper 50s, possibly 60 in the CT river valley. It will 
feel cooler across the Cape and Islands, given breezy conditions 
from NE winds 15-25 mph, possibly gusts up to 30 mph at times. 
Morning lows Fri in the 40s, except mid to upper 30s northern CT 
into western-central MA. Probably just enough wind here to preclude 
much if any frost. 

Weekend...

Gorgeous weather with large sprawling 1030 mb high pressure cresting 
over the region, providing sunshine, light winds and seasonable 
temps. Ideal weather, especially the light winds for those 
raking leaves this weekend. Sunday will be the milder of the 
two days, as airmass slowly modifies, with highs Saturday in the
upper 50s to low 60s (normal for late Oct) and then warming to 
60-65 Sunday. Afternoon seabreezes likely each day, but not a 
dramatic cool down given SSTs on eastern MA waters in the upper 
50s, and low 60s south coast. 850 mb temps a bit misleading this
weekend, which are much warmer than normal. But subsidence 
inversion associated with 1030 mb high along with low sun angle,
will limit blyr mixing well below 850 mb. Chilly nights this 
weekend given dry airmass and light winds. Thus, derived mins 
from the cooler MOS guidance, yielding lows in the 30s for many 
areas. Hence, could have some frosty mornings. 

Early Next Week...

Ensembles indicate long wave trough sets up across the MS Valley 
along with subtropical ridge building over near the Bahamas. This 
yields deep southwest flow along the eastern seaboard. This supports 
temps likely warmer than normal and may be accompanied by a risk for 
scattered showers Sun night/Mon with the change in airmass.

&&

.AVIATION /06Z WEDNESDAY THROUGH SUNDAY/...

Forecaster Confidence Levels:

Low - less than 30 percent. 
Medium - 30 to 60 percent. 
High - greater than 60 percent.

06z TAF Update...

Today...High Confidence.

Widespread IFR-LIFR conditions in low clouds, fog and periods of
showers persist today with perhaps even a rumble of thunder. 
The fog will be dense at times this morning especially near the
coast; but there should be some improvement in visibility as 
more showers impact the region later this morning. Very light 
ENE winds becoming variable but remaining quite light through 
the day.

Tonight...High Confidence in trends but timing more uncertain. 

IFR/LIFR conditions in low clouds and fog will gradually 
improve tonight from northwest to southeast. Most locations will
see VFR conditions by daybreak; except across far southeast New
England where some lower clouds/fog patches may linger. Light 
SW winds becoming W.

Thursday...High Confidence.

VFR with winds becoming NW at 10 to 15 knots and gusts between
20 and 25 knots by afternoon.

KBOS Terminal...High confidence in TAF. 

KBDL Terminal...High confidence in TAF. 
 
Outlook /Thursday Night through Sunday/...

Thursday through Friday Night: VFR. Breezy. 

Saturday through Sunday: VFR.

&&

.MARINE...
Forecaster Confidence Levels:

Low - less than 30 percent. 
Medium - 30 to 60 percent. 
High - greater than 60 percent.

Tonight through Wednesday night...Moderate Confidence.

Light easterly winds tonight and Wed will eventually shift to SW/W 
Wed night. Seas may build to 5 ft by Wed night from building SE 
swell. Widespread dense fog expected tonight into Wed morning with 
near zero vsbys at times. 

Outlook /Thursday Night through Sunday/...

Thursday: Winds less than 25 kt. Seas up to 5 ft. 

Thursday Night: Moderate risk for Small Craft Advisory winds
with gusts up to 25 kt. Seas up to 5 ft. 

Friday: Moderate risk for Small Craft Advisory winds with gusts
up to 25 kt. Rough seas up to 7 ft. 

Friday Night through Sunday: Winds less than 25 kt. Seas up to
5 ft.

&&

.BOX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
MA...Dense Fog Advisory until 7 AM EDT this morning for MAZ005>007-
     012>024.
RI...Dense Fog Advisory until 7 AM EDT this morning for RIZ001>008.
MARINE...None.

&&

$$
SYNOPSIS...KJC/Nocera
NEAR TERM...Frank
SHORT TERM...KJC
LONG TERM...Nocera
AVIATION...Frank/Nocera
MARINE...KJC/Nocera
