277 
FXUS61 KBOX 261752
AFDBOX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Boston/Norton MA
152 PM EDT Wed Oct 26 2022

.SYNOPSIS...
Any leftover showers diminish this evening with dry weather for
the remainder of tonight. Plenty of sunshine returns on 
Thursday with pleasant temperatures. This is replaced by brisk 
and cooler weather Thursday night into Friday, behind a backdoor
cold front. Large sprawling high pressure provides very 
pleasant weather this weekend, with seasonable afternoons and 
chilly nights, along with light winds. Mild and somewhat humid 
weather returns early next week, along with a risk for scattered
showers.

&&

.NEAR TERM /UNTIL 6 PM THIS EVENING/...
155 PM update...

Axis of heavier rain has shifted to the north and east with 
just a few showers lifting N across central MA. Mainly dry
conditions rest of the afternoon but a few showers may develop
across western MA/CT ahead of a shortwave moving into the
eastern Lakes. Some breaks of sun possible away fro the coast,
otherwise stratus and patchy fog lingers which should improve by
late afternoon as boundary layer winds shift to SW. Temps
ranging from mid 60s northern MA to lower 70s CT/RI and portions
of SE MA where dewpoints upper 60s to near 70 will make it feel
rather humid. 

&&

.SHORT TERM /6 PM THIS EVENING THROUGH 6 PM THURSDAY/...
Highlights...

* Any lingering showers end this evening but remaining mild tonight
* Sunshine returns Thu with much drier air with pleasant temperatures

Details...

Tonight...

Shortwave energy lifts to our northwest early this evening allowing 
a pre-frontal trough to cross the region. This brings drier mid 
level air into the region and any lingering showers should end this 
evening. Low clouds along with some fog will linger a bit longer; 
but do expect improvement from west to east particularly after 
midnight. West to southwest low level flow will allow the cool 
advection aloft to only gradually work into the region. This should 
keep overnight low temps in the 50s.

Thursday...

The actual surface cold front will cross the region Thursday morning 
into early afternoon. While no precipitation will be associated with 
this cold front it will usher in a much drier airmass. Plenty of 
sunshine will return and attempt to offset the cool advection slowly 
working in from the northwest. Given the mild start though expect 
high temps to still recover well into the 60s and perhaps near 70 
across parts of RI/SE MA. However, do expect it to feel cooler than 
recent days with a northwest breeze developing and dewpoints falling 
through the 40s and eventually into the 30s in some locations.

&&

.LONG TERM /THURSDAY NIGHT THROUGH TUESDAY/...
Highlights

* High pressure dominates the region Friday through Sunday with 
  seasonable temperatures during the day and below normal 
  temperatures at night.

* Warmer but unsettled weather returns early next week with a chance 
  for rain on Monday and Tuesday.


Thursday night through Sunday

High pressure system firmly establishes itself over the Northeast by 
the end of the week. Chilly temps expected Thursday night as clear 
skies should support some radiational cooling. However, the gradient 
wind will support some mixing and thus limit maximum cooling. By 
Friday the column will have dried out drastically with PWATs 
dropping below 0.25 inches. Therefore expect mostly clear skies to 
persist through the weekend. 

Temperatures will be close to normal through the weekend with 
afternoon highs ranging from the mid 50s to low 60s through Sunday 
afternoon. Maximum radiational cooling is expected Friday night and 
Saturday night as winds become lighter. Lows on Saturday morning 
will likely be in the mid 20s across portions of the interior. As 
always, the coastal areas will be a bit more mild. Freezing 
temperatures expected across the interior again on Saturday night, 
but not as cold as Friday night. 

Monday and Tuesday

High pressure shifts east during the Sunday night/Monday time frame. 
This will result in winds shifting to the south. Southerly flow will 
support increasing temperatures, moisture, and cloud cover across 
southern New England for the first half of next week. As a mid-level 
trough makes its way across the Midwest early next week, an area of 
low-pressure will develop and bring unsettled weather to the 
northeast. Details are vague at this time, but ensemble model 
guidance is in strong agreement for at least some precipitation for 
most of southern New England early next week. The first opportunity 
will be on Monday as a surface warm front lifts through the region. 
We'll see additional chances on Tuesday and perhaps Wednesday as an 
area of low-pressure and an associated cold front push through the 
Northeast.

&&

.AVIATION /18Z WEDNESDAY THROUGH MONDAY/...
Forecaster Confidence Levels:

Low - less than 30 percent. 
Medium - 30 to 60 percent. 
High - greater than 60 percent.

18z TAF update...

Through 00z...

Widespread IFR/LIFR conditions in stratus and patchy fog but 
improving conditions toward 00z in western New Eng as winds 
turn SW. 

Tonight...High Confidence in trends but timing more uncertain. 

IFR/LIFR in low clouds and patchy fog will gradually improve to
VFR this evening in the CT valley and after midnight elsewhere,
except Cape/Islands lower clouds and fog patches may linger.  
Light SW winds becoming W.

Thursday...High Confidence.

VFR. NW wind gusts 20-25 kt developing by afternoon.

Thursday Night...High Confidence.

VFR. N winds 5-15 kt with gusts to 25 kt over Cape/Islands. 

KBOS Terminal...High confidence in improving vsbys this evening
as winds turn SW. IFR cigs lingering but should become VFR after
midnight.  

KBDL Terminal...High confidence in improving conditions to VFR
tonight. Exact timing more uncertain. 
 
Outlook /Thursday Night through Sunday/...

Thursday Night through Friday Night: VFR. Breezy. 

Saturday through Sunday: VFR.

&&

.MARINE...
Forecaster Confidence Levels:

Low - less than 30 percent. 
Medium - 30 to 60 percent. 
High - greater than 60 percent.

Today through Thursday...Moderate Confidence.

The main concern for mariners into this evening will be for areas of 
fog that will be dense at times; particularly this morning. 
Visibility will improve later tonight and especially toward daybreak 
Thu as much drier air begins to work into the region from the west. 

Light winds today will shift to the SW tonight at 10-15 knots and 
then shift to the NW on Thu. Gusts will increase to between 20 and 
25 knots by late Thu as cool air advection increases mixing. In 
addition...east to southeast swell in the wake of low pressure 
system passing to our east later today will generate some 5 foot 
seas across our eastern waters late tonight and Thu. Therefore...we 
have hoisted small craft headlines for our eastern outer-waters.

Outlook /Thursday Night through Sunday/...

Thursday Night: Moderate risk for Small Craft Advisory winds
with gusts up to 25 kt. Seas up to 5 ft. 

Friday: Moderate risk for Small Craft Advisory winds with gusts
up to 25 kt. Rough seas up to 8 ft. 

Friday Night through Saturday Night: Winds less than 25 kt.
Seas up to 5 ft. 

Sunday: Winds less than 25 kt. Areas of seas approaching 5 ft.

&&

.BOX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
MA...None.
RI...None.
MARINE...Small Craft Advisory from midnight tonight to 8 PM EDT 
     Thursday for ANZ250-254.

&&

$$
SYNOPSIS...Frank/RM
NEAR TERM...KJC
SHORT TERM...Frank
LONG TERM...RM
AVIATION...KJC/RM
MARINE...Frank/RM
