699 
FXUS61 KBOX 260756
AFDBOX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Boston/Norton MA
356 AM EDT Wed Oct 26 2022

.SYNOPSIS...

Bands of showers with brief downpours will impact the region today 
along with rather humid conditions for late October standards. Any 
left over showers diminish this evening with dry weather for the 
remainder of tonight. Plenty of sunshine returns on Thursday with 
pleasant temperatures. This is replaced by brisk and cooler weather 
Thursday night into Friday, behind a backdoor cold front. Large 
sprawling high pressure provides very pleasant weather this weekend, 
with seasonable afternoons and chilly nights, along with light 
winds. Mild and somewhat humid weather returns early next week, 
along with a risk for scattered showers.

&&

.NEAR TERM /UNTIL 6 PM THIS EVENING/...

355 AM Update...

* Areas Dense Fog this morning especially towards the coast
* Mild/Muggy today with periods of showers with brief heavy rainfall

An unseasonably mild & muggy airmass was in place across the region 
very early this morning. Light onshore flow coupled with 60+ 
dewpoints was resulting in areas of fog that was dense in spots 
especially towards the coast. We have opted to extend the Dense Fog 
Advisory for eastern MA/RI until 10 am. While fog will continue to 
impact parts of this region into the afternoon; it probably should 
improve somewhat especially as more showers impact the region.

Otherwise...the main forecast concern today will be for bands of 
showers that will continue lifting up from the south today. This 
activity is being driven by a low pressure system just east of the 
Benchmark with access to tropical moisture. As this system lifts 
northward; modest lift along with SSE flow just off the deck will 
tap Pwats between 1.5 and 2 inches. The result will be bands of 
showers with brief heavy rainfall and perhaps a rumble or two of 
thunder. It is still tough to pinpoint exactly where the heavier 
bands of showers setup. While they are possible across the entire 
region; appears there might be somewhat of a higher risk across 
eastern MA later this morning into early afternoon. This is where a 
plume of stronger forcing/deeper moisture may scrape eastern MA or 
remain just off the coast. It will be a close call...but this is one 
area to watch for a period of heavier showers and perhaps a rumble 
of thunder or two. This may also result in some brief nuisance poor 
drainage street flooding, but do not think duration will be long 
enough to cause any significant issues.

Despite cloudy skies and periods of showers today; it will be quite 
mild and muggy for this time of year. High temperatures will 
generally be in the 65 to 70 degree range, but with light winds and 
dewpoints in the 60s it will feel quite sticky today.

&&

.SHORT TERM /6 PM THIS EVENING THROUGH 6 PM THURSDAY/...

Highlights...

* Any lingering showers end this evening but remaining mild tonight
* Sunshine returns Thu with much drier air with pleasant temperatures

Details...

Tonight...

Shortwave energy lifts to our northwest early this evening allowing 
a pre-frontal trough to cross the region. This brings drier mid 
level air into the region and any lingering showers should end this 
evening. Low clouds along with some fog will linger a bit longer; 
but do expect improvement from west to east particularly after 
midnight. West to southwest low level flow will allow the cool 
advection aloft to only gradually work into the region. This should 
keep overnight low temps in the 50s.

Thursday...

The actual surface cold front will cross the region Thursday morning 
into early afternoon. While no precipitation will be associated with 
this cold front it will usher in a much drier airmass. Plenty of 
sunshine will return and attempt to offset the cool advection slowly 
working in from the northwest. Given the mild start though expect 
high temps to still recover well into the 60s and perhaps near 70 
across parts of RI/SE MA. However, do expect it to feel cooler than 
recent days with a northwest breeze developing and dewpoints falling 
through the 40s and eventually into the 30s in some locations.

&&

.LONG TERM /THURSDAY NIGHT THROUGH TUESDAY/...


Highlights

* High pressure dominates the region Friday through Sunday with 
  seasonable temperatures during the day and below normal 
  temperatures at night.

* Warmer but unsettled weather returns early next week with a chance 
  for rain on Monday and Tuesday.


Thursday night through Sunday

High pressure system firmly establishes itself over the Northeast by 
the end of the week. Chilly temps expected Thursday night as clear 
skies should support some radiational cooling. However, the gradient 
wind will support some mixing and thus limit maximum cooling. By 
Friday the column will have dried out drastically with PWATs 
dropping below 0.25 inches. Therefore expect mostly clear skies to 
persist through the weekend. 

Temperatures will be close to normal through the weekend with 
afternoon highs ranging from the mid 50s to low 60s through Sunday 
afternoon. Maximum radiational cooling is expected Friday night and 
Saturday night as winds become lighter. Lows on Saturday morning 
will likely be in the mid 20s across portions of the interior. As 
always, the coastal areas will be a bit more mild. Freezing 
temperatures expected across the interior again on Saturday night, 
but not as cold as Friday night. 

Monday and Tuesday

High pressure shifts east during the Sunday night/Monday time frame. 
This will result in winds shifting to the south. Southerly flow will 
support increasing temperatures, moisture, and cloud cover across 
southern New England for the first half of next week. As a mid-level 
trough makes its way across the Midwest early next week, an area of 
low-pressure will develop and bring unsettled weather to the 
northeast. Details are vague at this time, but ensemble model 
guidance is in strong agreement for at least some precipitation for 
most of southern New England early next week. The first opportunity 
will be on Monday as a surface warm front lifts through the region. 
We'll see additional chances on Tuesday and perhaps Wednesday as an 
area of low-pressure and an associated cold front push through the 
Northeast.

&&

.AVIATION /08Z WEDNESDAY THROUGH SUNDAY/...

Forecaster Confidence Levels:

Low - less than 30 percent. 
Medium - 30 to 60 percent. 
High - greater than 60 percent.

06z TAF Update...

Today...High Confidence.

Widespread IFR-LIFR conditions in low clouds, fog and periods of
showers persist today with perhaps even a rumble of thunder. 
The fog will be dense at times this morning especially near the
coast; but there should be some improvement in visibility as 
more showers impact the region later this morning. Very light 
ENE winds becoming variable but remaining quite light through 
the day.

Tonight...High Confidence in trends but timing more uncertain. 

IFR/LIFR conditions in low clouds and fog will gradually 
improve tonight from northwest to southeast. Most locations will
see VFR conditions by daybreak; except across far southeast New
England where some lower clouds/fog patches may linger. Light 
SW winds becoming W.

Thursday...High Confidence.

VFR with winds becoming NW at 10 to 15 knots and gusts between
20 and 25 knots by afternoon.

KBOS Terminal...High confidence in TAF. 

KBDL Terminal...High confidence in TAF. 
 
Outlook /Thursday Night through Sunday/...

Thursday Night through Friday Night: VFR. Breezy. 

Saturday through Sunday: VFR. 

&&

.MARINE...

Forecaster Confidence Levels:

Low - less than 30 percent. 
Medium - 30 to 60 percent. 
High - greater than 60 percent.

Today through Thursday...Moderate Confidence.

The main concern for mariners into this evening will be for areas of 
fog that will be dense at times; particularly this morning. 
Visibility will improve later tonight and especially toward daybreak 
Thu as much drier air begins to work into the region from the west. 

Light winds today will shift to the SW tonight at 10-15 knots and 
then shift to the NW on Thu. Gusts will increase to between 20 and 
25 knots by late Thu as cool air advection increases mixing. In 
addition...east to southeast swell in the wake of low pressure 
system passing to our east later today will generate some 5 foot 
seas across our eastern waters late tonight and Thu. Therefore...we 
have hoisted small craft headlines for our eastern outer-waters.

Outlook /Thursday Night through Sunday/...

Thursday Night: Moderate risk for Small Craft Advisory winds
with gusts up to 25 kt. Seas up to 5 ft. 

Friday: Moderate risk for Small Craft Advisory winds with gusts
up to 25 kt. Rough seas up to 8 ft. 

Friday Night through Saturday Night: Winds less than 25 kt.
Seas up to 5 ft. 

Sunday: Winds less than 25 kt. Areas of seas approaching 5 ft. 

&&

.BOX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
MA...Dense Fog Advisory until 10 AM EDT this morning for MAZ005>007-
     012>024.
RI...Dense Fog Advisory until 10 AM EDT this morning for RIZ001>008.
MARINE...Small Craft Advisory from midnight tonight to 8 PM EDT 
     Thursday for ANZ250-254.

&&

$$
SYNOPSIS...Frank/RM
NEAR TERM...Frank
SHORT TERM...Frank
LONG TERM...RM
AVIATION...Frank/RM
MARINE...Frank/RM
