857 
FXUS64 KLIX 262042
AFDLIX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service New Orleans LA
342 PM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

...New SHORT TERM, LONG TERM, AVIATION, MARINE...

.SHORT TERM...
(This evening through Thursday night)
Issued at 244 PM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

An increasingly difluent flow pattern aloft will combine with
strong positive vorticity advection to induce a broad area of
enhanced forcing across the Gulf South throughout the short term
period. Typically, this pattern would be supportive of cloud and
rain development, but a lack of moisture throughout the entirety 
of the atmospheric column through tomorrow will keep skies mainly 
clear through at least Thursday evening. Possibly by late Thursday
night, some high level moisture will begin to transport into the
area on the back of a strong jet streak, and this will translate
over to increasing cirrus cloud cover. The main driver of this
drier airmass lingering over the area is the continuation of
offshore flow through tomorrow evening and the presence of a
strong mid-level ridge over the Gulf South. A larger than average
diurnal range of around 30 degrees is expected because of these
clear and dry conditions. Lows should cool into the 40s over
interior locations, but should also easily warm into the middle to
upper 70s by the afternoon hours tomorrow. 

&&

.LONG TERM...
(Friday through Tuesday night)
Issued at 244 PM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

The strong positive vorticity advection and highly difluent flow
pattern mentioned in the short term period will remain in place on
Friday in advance of a deepening shortwave trough and strong upper
level low over Oklahoma and Texas. The trough axis will remain in
neutral tilt on Friday as it slowly moves east along the Red River
Valley. In advance of this trough a series of weak vorticity
maxima embedded within the strong 130+ knot jet aloft will sweep
through the Lower Mississippi Valley. At the same time, the mid-
level ridge dominating the area will shift to the east and a
strengthening deep layer onshore flow regime will develop by
Friday afternoon. Moisture will begin surging back into the area
from the southern and central Gulf of Mexico, and this is most
evident in the one inch increase in precipitable water values from
around 0.5 inches Friday morning to 1.5 inches by Friday evening.
Given the favorable forcing aloft, cloud cover will be on the
increase through the day, and scattered showers should begin to
develop over the western third of the forecast area near the
Atchafalaya River by late Friday afternoon. Thunderstorm activity
is still not expected as lingering drier air in the mid-levels
will keep lapse rates weak and instability very low.  

The primary period of higher PoP will occur Friday night into
Saturday as the strong shortwave trough axis and associated upper
level low over Texas begins to take on a negative tilt in response
to the 130+ knot jet streak rounding the base of the trough. Near
the right entrance region of this jet streak and within a region
of higher baroclincity over the Texas coastal Plain and far
northwest Gulf, a surface low should begin to deepen. The
evolution of this low will be the primary driver of the PoP and
weather forecast over the Friday night into Saturday time period.
There are some model differences on how far north the warm front 
developing in advance of this will surge with most of the guidance
keeping the front over our coastal waters. However, some more
recent guidance, including the NAM, indicate that the front could
surge as far inland as the I-12 corridor. If this occurs, the risk
of surface based thunderstorms and the potential for severe
storms, given very favorable directional shear as winds back near
the warm front, would increase dramatically for Saturday. At this
time, have opted to stick with the blended solution of the NBM 
which keeps the highest dewpoints over the offshore waters. 
However, even the NBM has increased the thunderstorm potential for
Saturday, and now calls for at least a high end chance of 
elevated thunderstorms forming in advance of a dry line surging 
east across the CWA late Saturday morning into early Saturday 
afternoon. The development of this low and the attendant warm
front will need to be closely examined over the next couple of
days as CAMS guidance becomes more available.  

Conditions are expected to improve from west to east Saturday
afternoon into Saturday evening as the negatively tilted trough
axis lifts into the Midwest and the surface low pulls well north
and east of the forecast area. A potent and deep dry slot should
punch into the region on the backside of the front, and will lead
to a sharp cutoff of rain chances in the immediate wake of the
front. Little in the way of cold air advection is anticipated with
this system, and that will result in temperatures only cooling a
few degrees below average for this time of year. By Sunday, only
some fair weather cumulus is expected to form where lingering low
level moisture is trapped beneath an elevated inversion layer
across the northern third of the CWA. Otherwise, dry and mild
conditions are expected to persist from Sunday through Tuesday
across the forecast area.  

&&

.AVIATION...
(18Z TAFS)
Issued at 244 PM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

A dry and very stable airmass will remain in place through
tomorrow. As a result, prevailing VFR conditions are expected at
all of the terminals. Continued cold air advection over the Lake
Pontchartrain will allow northeast winds to increase to 12 knots
or greater late tonight into early tomorrow morning. Otherwise,
no significant impacts to aviation operations are anticipated
through tomorrow afternoon. 

&&

.MARINE...
Issued at 244 PM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

Lingering cold and dry air advection over the eastern waters,
sounds, and lakes should allow for some stronger boundary layer
winds of 15 to 20 knots to mix down over the coastal water
tonight. However, these winds will quickly diminish tomorrow
morning as temperatures warm. A brief period of more benign
conditions should be in place over the waters for tomorrow night,
but a return to more unsettled conditions is expected by Friday.
Southeast flow will increase back to near advisory levels on
Friday as a surface low deepens over Texas. This low will track
north of the waters Friday night into Saturday and drive a strong
cold front through the area. Winds should remain high at 15 to 25
knots and seas of 4 to 7 feet are expected to develop. As a
result, small craft advisories will likely persist into Saturday.
High pressure is then expected to begin settling over the waters
Saturday night and this will lead to lighter winds and calmer seas
for Sunday and Monday of next week. 

&&

.PRELIMINARY POINT TEMPS/POPS...
MCB  44  76  49  77 /   0   0   0  20 
BTR  47  77  52  77 /   0   0   0  40 
ASD  46  77  50  78 /   0   0   0  20 
MSY  56  74  59  77 /   0   0   0  20 
GPT  48  74  54  76 /   0   0   0  10 
PQL  44  76  49  78 /   0   0   0  10 

&&

.LIX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
LA...None.
GM...None.
MS...None.
GM...None.
&&

$$

SHORT TERM...PG
LONG TERM....PG
AVIATION...PG
