013 
FXUS65 KPSR 262344
AFDPSR

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Phoenix AZ
444 PM MST Wed Oct 26 2022

.UPDATE...
Updated Aviation section.

&&

.SYNOPSIS...
Quiet weather conditions continue today as temperatures warm but 
remain below normal into the weekend. Gusty north winds expected 
in higher terrain across the forecast area for tomorrow as a dry 
front moves through. Otherwise, nothing of note weatherwise 
through the early portions of next week.

&&

.DISCUSSION...
Troughing that will dig across the northeastern portions of AZ
this evening into tomorrow will turn zonal flow into more north to
northwest flow aloft into tomorrow. This feature will cause gusty
northerly winds to develop across higher terrain from west to 
east as a dry cold front advances eastward as we progress through
the day Thursday. Temperatures will trend upward into the low 80s
as ridging builds in across the area on Friday. Lingering ridging
will keep the warming trend through at least Saturday before high
temperatures level off going into early next week.

The weather pattern will remain generally zonal through early next
week ahead of another trough that ensemble means continue to show
will develop across the Pacific Northwest beginning Tuesday 
night. The trough axis looks to pass over the forecast area 
sometime between Wednesday and Thursday. There is still a decent 
amount of spread in the clusters on the evolution of this 
troughing feature beginning on Wednesday. Based on the 12z 
ensemble solutions, a more amplified wave moving across the 
western U.S. consists of about ~50% of the members, while ~30% of 
the members show a more progressive pattern. The amplified pattern
would result in increased potential for active weather while the 
more progressive pattern would result in continued quiet weather 
across the forecast area. At this point, the NBM is leaning more 
towards increased activity as some areas across the northeast
portions of the CWA have up to 20% PoPs beginning Wednesday 
morning.

&&

.AVIATION...Updated 1735Z.

South-Central Arizona including KPHX, KIWA, KSDL, and KDVT:

A weak weather disturbance aloft will bring a batch of cirrus
this evening followed by mostly clear skies. Surface winds will
favor southwest and west directions early this evening before
transitioning to familiar downvalley drainage patterns (favoring
easterly components) by late evening. The onset of a westerly
component during the day tomorrow could be as early as 16Z due to
an approaching weak dry front but more likely will be after 19Z. A
shift to northeasterly directions, along with some localized
gustiness, begins Thursday evening. 


Southeast California/Southwest Arizona including KIPL and KBLH: 

A weak weather disturbance aloft will bring a batch of cirrus
this evening followed by mostly clear skies. AT KIPL, surface 
winds will be light and variable before westerly directions become
established around 03Z. As the inversion breaks Thursday morning,
northerly winds will prevail after 17Z though sustained speeds are
expected to remain AOB 10kts. At KBLH, wind directions will be 
highly variable for much of the night until northerly directions 
develop after 09Z as a weak dry front moves through. Initially, 
speeds will be light (less than 10kts) before some minor gustiness
develops (20-25kts) after 17Z.


&&

.FIRE WEATHER...
Dry conditions and near to below normal temperatures will remain 
across the region through at least the weekend. Winds will be 
light today with minRHs in a 10-15% range across the lower 
deserts. On Thursday, a passing dry weather system to the north 
will lead to some northerly breezes during the day with the 
strongest winds up to 25 mph across the Lower CO River Valley. 
Overall weak high pressure late this week through the weekend will
lead to some modest warming with temperatures warming to near
normal over the weekend. Moisture levels are also expected to 
remain low through the weekend with min RHs generally staying in a
10-20% range across the lower deserts to 15-30% across the higher
terrain.

&&

.PSR WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
AZ...None.
CA...None.
&&

$$

DISCUSSION...Young
AVIATION...AJ
FIRE WEATHER...Kuhlman
