269 
FXUS65 KPSR 260544 AAC
AFDPSR

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Phoenix AZ
1044 PM MST Tue Oct 25 2022

.UPDATE...Updated 06Z Aviation Discussion.

&&

.SYNOPSIS...
Temperatures will begin to rebound today, but still remain below
seasonal averages through at least Thursday. Heading towards the 
weekend, temperatures will hover in the low to mid-80s across the 
lower deserts. The weather pattern will remain quiet through 
early next week.

&&

.DISCUSSION...
Residual ridging across Arizona will slowly become more of a
progressive pattern ahead of the next digging trough across the
western CONUS beginning on Wednesday. This trough will slow the 
general warming trend as 500mb heights fall through Wednesday. 
This troughing feature will dig into the panhandle of TX by 
Thursday night, with ridging building in behind this trough across
AZ. Thus, warming temperatures into the low to mid 80s by 
Saturday are likely based on ensemble model solutions. 

This pattern will continue dry northwest to west flow aloft
through the weekend. As the trough digs across western CONUS
Wednesday into Thursday, breezy northerly winds are expected to
develop across higher terrain of SE CA Wednesday night and 
eventually spread east across higher terrain north and east of the
Phoenix metro on Thursday. As ridging builds back in Thursday
night, easterly gradient winds will persist through Friday across
southcentral AZ. 

Cluster analysis of model ensembles begin to show some varying 
solutions in the upper level pattern beginning on Saturday as the 
ridge axis shifts east of the Phoenix area and another shortwave 
trough works eastward across the Pacific Northwest and the Rocky 
Mountain West. However, these differences aren't significant 
enough to lessen confidence that conditions will remain dry 
through the weekend and into early next week across southcentral 
AZ. The weather pattern becomes more uncertain in regards to
remaining progressive or not advancing from the middle of next
week onward.

&&

.AVIATION...Updated 0544Z.

South-Central Arizona including KPHX, KIWA, KSDL, and KDVT, and 
Southeast California/Southwest Arizona including KIPL and KBLH: No 
aviation weather concerns anticipated through Wednesday night. 
Light, diurnal winds and mostly clear skies will prevail at all TAF 
sites.

&&

.FIRE WEATHER...
Dry conditions and near to below normal temperatures will remain 
across the region through the entire week. Through Wednesday, 
winds will be light with minRHs in a 10-15% range across the lower
deserts. On Thursday, a passing dry weather system to the north 
will lead to some northerly breezes during the day with the 
strongest winds up to 25 mph across the Lower CO River Valley. 
Overall weak high pressure late this week through the weekend will
lead to some modest warming, but slightly below normal 
temperatures are still favored through the period. Moisture levels
are also expected to remain low through the weekend with min RHs 
generally staying in a 10-20% range across the lower deserts to 
15-30% across the higher terrain.

&&

.PSR WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
AZ...None.
CA...None.
&&

$$

DISCUSSION...Young
AVIATION...Percha/Hirsch 
FIRE WEATHER...Kuhlman
