312 
FXUS65 KPSR 261733
AFDPSR

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Phoenix AZ
1033 AM MST Wed Oct 26 2022

.UPDATE...Updated 18Z Aviation Discussion.

.SYNOPSIS...
A quiet weather pattern will persist through at least the weekend
with a slow warming trend eventually bringing temperatures close
to normal. After seeing high temperatures in the upper 70s to 
around 80 degrees through Friday, highs will peak over the weekend
in the lower 80s to as warm as 85 degrees. Generally clear skies 
are forecast over the next few days before an increase in higher 
level clouds are expected this weekend.

&&

.DISCUSSION...
An overall zonal upper level flow pattern will dominate across our
region through at least the weekend with little change to sensible
weather conditions. For today, a very weak shortwave trough will
quickly pass by to our north with only a brief period of high
clouds later in the day. Temperatures will also continue to 
recover with highs warming into the upper 70s in the Phoenix area to
the lower 80s across the western deserts. On Thursday, a stronger
and more organized weather system will move out of the Great 
Basin into Colorado and New Mexico, still largely bypassing our 
area. Again with this second system, little is expected to change 
for our weather with the exception of some breezy northerly winds 
mainly impacting the high terrain and the Lower CO River Valley.

From Friday into the weekend, weak upper level ridging moving over
our region will lead to a slight boost in temperatures with highs
climbing into a 80-85 degree range, or just shy of normal for late
October. Models also show a bit more upper level moisture working
its way off the Pacific into our region over the weekend, so some
high clouds are likely, possibly becoming somewhat thick on
Sunday. Looking into next week, model ensembles continue to show a
weak shortwave trough either passing through or just south of our
region on Monday, but with essentially no support for any
precipitation. Temperatures are also not likely to change much at
all early next week with NBM guidance still showing highs
generally in the lower 80s. Another weather system looks likely to
move off of the Pacific at some point during the middle part of 
next week, but there is still high ensemble spread in the depth of
the system. A deeper system which was supported by 30% of the 12Z
ensemble members would suggest at least a somewhat impactful 
weather system across our region, while a shallower/weaker system 
would probably lead to it again mostly bypassing our region to 
the north. 

&&

.AVIATION...Updated 1735Z.

South-Central Arizona including KPHX, KIWA, KSDL, and KDVT:
Overall light winds with the typical diurnal trends with a shift
to westerly winds this afternoon and early evening, then back to
east overnight. Few to scattered mid and high clouds through the 
period, with maybe an occasional broken high level ceiling this 
evening. 

Southeast California/Southwest Arizona including KIPL and KBLH: 
Overall light winds will prevail through the overnight hours with
scattered mid/high clouds. A dry cold front from the north will
bring a bit higher north winds to KBLH Thursday morning. 

&&

.FIRE WEATHER...
Dry conditions and near to below normal temperatures will remain 
across the region through at least the weekend. Winds will be 
light today with minRHs in a 10-15% range across the lower 
deserts. On Thursday, a passing dry weather system to the north 
will lead to some northerly breezes during the day with the 
strongest winds up to 25 mph across the Lower CO River Valley. 
Overall weak high pressure late this week through the weekend will
lead to some modest warming with temperatures warming to near
normal over the weekend. Moisture levels are also expected to 
remain low through the weekend with min RHs generally staying in a
10-20% range across the lower deserts to 15-30% across the higher
terrain.

&&

.PSR WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
AZ...None.
CA...None.
&&

$$

DISCUSSION...Kuhlman
AVIATION...Frieders
FIRE WEATHER...Kuhlman
