784 
FXUS61 KCTP 261511
AFDCTP

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service State College PA
1111 AM EDT Wed Oct 26 2022

.SYNOPSIS...
Low pressure moving across the Upper Great Lakes will drag a 
cold front and secondary trough through today. A dry and
seasonably mild stretch of weather returns for Thursday and 
lasts through Sunday. Rain will return to the forecast for 
Sunday night or Monday.

&&

.NEAR TERM /THROUGH TONIGHT/...
1030AM: Fractured band of rain lifting NNE across CPA this
morning associated with shortwave lifting from northern OH 
across the lower Great Lakes by this evening. Synoptic cold
front currently pushing toward the OH/PA border will sweep
through CPA by tonight with brief flow regime transition to
post frontal/WNW upslope. Shower activity spread out across the
area through the afternoon will become confined along the spine
of the Alleghenies this evening/early tonight before POPs trend
to sub 10% by 12Z Thursday. MaxTs are relatively mild for late
October especially across the northern tier with daily departure
from climo on the order of +5-10F. Look for a west-NW breeze to
pick up into tonight directing noticeably cooler air back into
the region. MinT drop -8 to -15F NoN into the upper 30s along
the Alleghenies to around 50F in the Lower Susq metros (still
+5-10F above climo in most places). 

Previous Discussion Issued: 453 AM EDT Wed Oct 26 2022

Short wave ridging and subtle veering to the llvl flow is
probably helping to eat up some of the low clouds over the
central mtns. Expect the clouds over the east to break up - but
perhaps not completely - before isolated SHRA move in from the
SW this aftn.

The low pressure over nrn IN at 06Z is moving steadily to the
NNE, and will drag a cold front across the region late this
morning through late aftn. Mid-day timing of fropa will be 
prime for instability, but progged LIs are barely near 0C.
Still, cannot totally rule out one clap of thunder. One wide
band of showers is nearing far SWrn PA at 09Z, and should get
into the Laurels around sunrise or slightly before. Occluded
system and SWrly flow behind the front will mean that the 
airmass change will be not drastic. In fact, temps may rise some
behind the front as the SW half of the area will still have 
some daylight to help warm things up. Will hold close to model
blend for temps today.

As the main band of RA/SHRA lift out to the N today, a weaker
trough swings in from the west. This will make the airmass
change more than the cold front. Expect just a couple of SHRA as
this feature moves through the wrn mtns. Any of these SHRA
should be over around midnight. The rest of the night will
feature a good amount of clouds over the NWrn 2/3rds. Expect
mins to stay in the 40s and L50s.

&&

.SHORT TERM /THURSDAY/...
Huge high pressure floats over the Great Lakes and will hold
sway through the weekend. PWATs drop below 0.25" for many days.
Thursday will feature an erosion of the low clouds from the NW 
mtns. NNW wind will create a good downslope flow for the Lower
Susq. We'll only mix to about 3500ft, so it won't be too warm.
Expect maxes to be in the M50s to M60s, overall a pretty nice
fall day for most of the CWA.

&&

.LONG TERM /THURSDAY NIGHT THROUGH TUESDAY/...
Dry weather is expected Friday and Saturday with high pressure
centered over southern Ontario and Quebec. Seasonable highs and
lows are expected both Friday and Saturday with highs in the 50s
to lower 60s and lows in the 30s.

Continued the trend toward a dry Sunday though the NBM continues
to insist that rain comes in quicker Sunday afternoon and
evening. Dropped PoPs similar to previous shifts with strong
high pressure overhead still during the day Sunday which should
delay the arrival of rain until Sunday night or Monday.
A shortwave trough will swing over the commonwealth Monday and
Monday night leading to the aforementioned rain chances, though
the rain should remain generally light and depart by the middle
of the week as ridging build back over the region.


&&

.AVIATION /15Z WEDNESDAY THROUGH SUNDAY/...
Stratus/Stratocu clouds continue to blanket much of the eastern
half of the CWA early today with MVFR cigs. IFR to LIFR
conditions present across the SE zones where a light to moderate
S-SSE llvl flow was transporting moisture north off the
Chesapeake and Delaware Bays. 

A cold front will sweep through the region this afternoon into
early tonight bringing a brief period of showers.  

Rain (mainly showers) beginning at western airfields in the 13Z
to 16Z period before heading east through the afternoon hours.

Intermittent LIFR cigs possible at MDT and LNS. Rain moving out
around 22Z when cigs should start improving to MVFR.


Outlook...

Wed...AM low cigs likely, -shra spread from SW to NE during the
day.

Thu...AM low cigs possible W Mtns. 

Fri...No sig wx expected.

Sat...Slight chance of low cigs on east facing slopes and ridge
tops of the Laurel Highlands as a result of light easterly
surface wind.

&&

.EQUIPMENT...
Scheduled maintenance on many regional ASOS sites will occur 
over the next few weeks. Interruptions will mainly be to the 
wind sensor data. But, at times, much of the observation data
may be interrupted.

&&

.CTP WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
None.

&&

$$
SYNOPSIS...Dangelo/Steinbugl
NEAR TERM...Dangelo/Steinbugl
SHORT TERM...Dangelo
LONG TERM...Fitzgerald/Travis
AVIATION...Lambert/Buvala
EQUIPMENT...
