368 
FXUS61 KCTP 260937
AFDCTP

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service State College PA
537 AM EDT Wed Oct 26 2022

.SYNOPSIS...
Low pressure moving across the Upper Great Lakes will drag a 
cold front and secondary trough through today. A dry and
seasonably mild stretch of weather returns for Thursday and 
lasts through Sunday. Rain will return to the forecast for 
Sunday night or Monday.

&&

.NEAR TERM /THROUGH TONIGHT/...
Short wave ridging and subtle veering to the llvl flow is
probably helping to eat up some of the low clouds over the
central mtns. Expect the clouds over the east to break up - but
perhaps not completely - before isolated SHRA move in from the
SW this aftn.

The low pressure over nrn IN at 06Z is moving steadily to the
NNE, and will drag a cold front across the region late this
morning through late aftn. Mid-day timing of fropa will be 
prime for instability, but progged LIs are barely near 0C.
Still, cannot totally rule out one clap of thunder. One wide
band of showers is nearing far SWrn PA at 09Z, and should get
into the Laurels around sunrise or slightly before. Occluded
system and SWrly flow behind the front will mean that the 
airmass change will be not drastic. In fact, temps may rise some
behind the front as the SW half of the area will still have 
some daylight to help warm things up. Will hold close to model
blend for temps today.

As the main band of RA/SHRA lift out to the N today, a weaker
trough swings in from the west. This will make the airmass
change more than the cold front. Expect just a couple of SHRA as
this feature moves through the wrn mtns. Any of these SHRA
should be over around midnight. The rest of the night will
feature a good amount of clouds over the NWrn 2/3rds. Expect
mins to stay in the 40s and L50s.

&&

.SHORT TERM /THURSDAY/...
Huge high pressure floats over the Great Lakes and will hold
sway through the weekend. PWATs drop below 0.25" for many days.
Thursday will feature an erosion of the low clouds from the NW 
mtns. NNW wind will create a good downslope flow for the Lower
Susq. We'll only mix to about 3500ft, so it won't be too warm.
Expect maxes to be in the M50s to m60s.

&&

.LONG TERM /THURSDAY NIGHT THROUGH TUESDAY/...
Continued the trend toward a dry Sunday, dropping PoPs 10-20pct
off the NBM mean/50th percentile. The earliest arrival of rain 
now appearing to be Sunday evening per a good majority of  
models/ensemble members. 

Prev...
All model guidance supports fair and seasonable weather late
this week, as large high pressure system and associated low-pwat
air mass builds east from the Grt Lks to New England. Models 
have begun to converge on the timing of strength of a southern 
stream shortwave approaching Pa early next week. Thus, have now
focused the greatest chance of rain in the Sunday night/Monday
time frame, as low level jet and plume of GOMEX moisture surges
into the region ahead of shortwave, overrunning relatively 
cool/stable air linked to retreating high east of New England. 
Showery conditions look likely to linger into Tuesday, as mid 
level shortwave lifts through the state. 

Ensemble 2m temp plumes suggest daytime temperatures will 
remain seasonal into early next week, but cloud cover and 
surging humidity should result in very mild conditions Sunday 
and Monday nights.

&&

.AVIATION /10Z WEDNESDAY THROUGH SUNDAY/...
Stratus/Stratocu clouds continue to blanket much of the eastern
half of the CWA early today with MVFR cigs. IFR to LIFR
conditions present across the SE zones where a light to moderate
S-SSE llvl flow was transporting moisture north off the
Chesapeake and Delaware Bays. 

A cold front will sweep through the region this afternoon into
early tonight bringing a brief period of showers.  

Rain (mainly showers) beginning at western airfields in the 13Z
to 16Z period before heading east through the afternoon hours.

Intermittent LIFR cigs possible at MDT and LNS. Rain moving out
around 22Z when cigs should start improving to MVFR.


Outlook...

Wed...AM low cigs likely, -shra spread from SW to NE during the
day.

Thu...AM low cigs possible W Mtns. 

Fri...No sig wx expected.

Sat...Slight chance of low cigs on east facing slopes and ridge
tops of the Laurel Highlands as a result of light easterly
surface wind.

&&

.EQUIPMENT...
Scheduled maintenance on many regional ASOS sites will occur 
over the next few weeks. Interruptions will mainly be to the 
wind sensor data. But, at times, much of the observation data
may be interrupted.

&&

.CTP WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
None.

&&

$$
SYNOPSIS...Dangelo
NEAR TERM...Dangelo
SHORT TERM...Dangelo
LONG TERM...Fitzgerald/Dangelo
AVIATION...Lambert/Buvala
EQUIPMENT...Lambert
