965 
FXUS61 KCTP 260517
AFDCTP

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service State College PA
117 AM EDT Wed Oct 26 2022

.SYNOPSIS...
A low pressure system and stationary boundary over the Atlantic
will contribute to patchy light rain or drizzle over the 
eastern half of PA through tonight. On Wednesday, a low pressure
system approaching from the west will produce some rain 
showers. A dry stretch of weather returns for the end of the 
week and into the first half of the weekend, with rain showers 
possibly returning as early as Sunday.

&&

.NEAR TERM /UNTIL 8 AM THIS MORNING/...
Low clouds now stalling, and showing some breaks in the central
mtns. The strong inversion and good SE flow should keep it 
mostly-all cloudy for much of the night. Some bigger breaks are
anticipated as the day starts. Few changes with this update.

Prev...
A persistent southeast flow off of the Atlantic, combined with
nocturnal cooling, should cause stratus over the eastern half of
the forecast area to expand westward into the central mountains
tonight. Meanwhile, mid and high level cloudiness will
overspread the region from the west ahead of a potent shortwave
approaching from the Ohio Valley. Model soundings indicate cloud
depth will become sufficient for patchy drizzle late tonight
over the eastern part of the forecast area, especially where the
southeast flow is forced to ascend the higher elevations of
Schuylkill and Sullivan counties. Surging low level moisture and
cloud cover will hold temperatures up tonight, with lows mainly
in the 50s.

&&

.SHORT TERM /8 AM THIS MORNING THROUGH 6 PM THURSDAY/...
A weakening mid level shortwave and an attendant cold front will
push through the region Wednesday, accompanied by a band of 
showers. Highest POPs of near 100 pct are placed across the 
northwest mountains, where the strongest large scale forcing is 
progged to sweep through during the afternoon. Most likely 
rainfall based on ensemble qpf plumes ranges from around 0.2 
inches over the northwest mountains, to just a few hundredths 
over the southeast counties. Cloud cover and showers should 
result in little diurnal heating Wednesday with highs ranging 
from near 60F over the Alleghenies, to near 70F over Lancaster 
County. 

The front should be through all of central PA near sunset. The 
upper trough and wrap around behind the low/frontal passage will
create some isolated to scattered showers Wednesday night over 
portions of the Alleghenies. As skies mostly clear out in 
southeast PA, temperatures should drop back into the 40s for 
most Thursday morning.

&&

.LONG TERM /THURSDAY NIGHT THROUGH TUESDAY/...
Continued the trend toward a dry Sunday, dropping PoPs 10-20pct
off the NBM mean/50th percentile. The earliest arrival of rain 
now appearing to be Sunday evening per a good majority of  
models/ensemble members. 

Prev...
All model guidance supports fair and seasonable weather late
this week, as large high pressure system and associated low-pwat
air mass builds east from the Grt Lks to New England. Models 
have begun to converge on the timing of strength of a southern 
stream shortwave approaching Pa early next week. Thus, have now
focused the greatest chance of rain in the Sunday night/Monday
time frame, as low level jet and plume of GOMEX moisture surges
into the region ahead of shortwave, overrunning relatively 
cool/stable air linked to retreating high east of New England. 
Showery conditions look likely to linger into Tuesday, as mid 
level shortwave lifts through the state. 

Ensemble 2m temp plumes suggest daytime temperatures will 
remain seasonal into early next week, but cloud cover and 
surging humidity should result in very mild conditions Sunday 
and Monday nights.

&&

.AVIATION /05Z WEDNESDAY THROUGH SUNDAY/...
Stratus remains over the eastern half of the CWA with MVFR cigs
spreading westward. MVFR and IFR cigs expected to develop at 
all airfields during the late evening and overnight hours with
moist, southerly flow. Rain beginning at western 
airfields around 15Z to 18Z and spreading eastwards throughout 
tomorrow afternoon. Intermittent LIFR cigs possible at MDT and 
LNS. Rain moving out around 22Z when cigs should start improving
to MVFR. 


Outlook...

Wed...AM low cigs likely, -shra spread from SW to NE during the
day.

Thu...AM low cigs possible W Mtns. 

Fri...No sig wx expected.

Sat...Slight chance of low cigs Laurel Highlands.

&&

.EQUIPMENT...
Scheduled maintenance on many regional ASOS sites will occur 
over the next few weeks. Interruptions will mainly be to the 
wind sensor data. But, at times, much of the observation data
may be interrupted.

&&

.CTP WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
None.

&&

$$
SYNOPSIS...Guseman/Dangelo
NEAR TERM...Fitzgerald/Dangelo
SHORT TERM...Guseman/Fitzgerald
LONG TERM...Fitzgerald
AVIATION...Travis/Buvala
EQUIPMENT...
