333 
FXUS61 KPHI 261855
AFDPHI

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Mount Holly NJ
255 PM EDT Wed Oct 26 2022

.SYNOPSIS...
A cold front will cross our region tonight. Strong high pressure 
will build across the Great Lakes on Thursday, slide to our north on 
Friday, before moving more into our area over the weekend. An area 
of weak low pressure will approach from the southwest late Sunday. 
The low will slowly track through the region Monday and Tuesday. 
High pressure will return on Wednesday.

&&

.NEAR TERM /THROUGH THURSDAY/...
The weather pattern makes a transition tonight, finally ending the 
low clouds and fog that have dominated our weather for the last 
several days.

An upper-level trough lifting from the upper Ohio Valley to across 
the Great Lakes through early this evening takes on a negative tilt. 
This will take weak low pressure with it, however an associated cold 
front will cross our region tonight. The bulk of forcing for ascent 
just glances parts of our region, however some weak short wave 
energy out ahead of the trough is helping to produce some showers 
this afternoon especially the western areas. As the cold front 
arrives, it looks like it moves through with little to no shower 
activity as the deeper moisture is already shifting more east. A 
wind shift to the west and northwest will take place in the wake of 
the cold front tonight, and as cold air advection kicks in along 
with a developing tightening pressure gradient the breeze should 
increase especially toward daybreak Thursday. The dew points will 
lower in the wake of the cold front. Despite the drying through the 
night, some cloudiness looks to hang on as we transition into a new 
air mass. Low temperatures will be in the mid/upper 40s to low 50s.

As we go through Thursday, strong high pressure across the Great 
Lakes will slowly build eastward as the flow aloft turns more zonal 
for a time. Some lingering clouds early will given way to plenty of 
sunshine. Due to the incoming strong surface high, the pressure 
gradient tightens across our region. The model forecast soundings 
indicate decent mixing during the day and this will result in a 
notable/gusty north-northwest wind. The mixing will also enhance the 
lowering of the surface dew points especially from the I-95 corridor 
on north and west, with values forecast to drop into the 30s. 
Daytime temperatures are forecast to warm into the mid/upper 60s 
(cooler across the Poconos).

&&

.SHORT TERM /THURSDAY NIGHT THROUGH SATURDAY/...
The period starts with a southwest flow aloft and northeast winds at 
the surface with high pressure centered across the Great Lakes. The 
surface high drifts to the east Friday and Friday night and the flow 
aloft becomes more zonal. The period ends with weak ridging aloft 
and high pressure holding on at the surface.  

Fueled by the surface high to our north, winds will start off from 
the north on Thursday night and then hold from the northeast Friday 
into Saturday. Winds will be gusty at the coast topping out in the 
15 to 25 mph range. Inland areas will be more in the 10 to 15 mph 
range during the day and 5 to 10 mph during the nighttime hours.

No precipitation is expected through the period. Dewpoints will be 
in the 30s and 40s.

For reference, the normal high in Philadelphia in in the mid 60s and 
the normal low is in the mid 40s. Overall temperatures through the 
period will run at or slightly below normal. 


&&

.LONG TERM /SATURDAY NIGHT THROUGH TUESDAY/...
Potentially looking at a wide range of lows Saturday night across 
the region. Cloud cover will begin to move in from the south ahead 
of the next system, which will keep areas around Delmarva in the 
upper 40s/low 50s. Mostly clear skies will hold for a bit longer up 
north, which will allow temperatures to drop near freezing up in the 
Poconos and NW NJ. For the Lehigh Valley/PHL metro/South Jersey, 
expecting upper 30s/low 40s. 

Sunday looks to be dry yet cloudy. Mostly cloudy skies will 
overspread the area by midday as high pressure departs. Thinking dry 
conditions prevail through the day, so pushed mentionable PoPS until 
Sunday night. Temperatures will be right around/just above normal 
for this time of year, mainly looking at low to mid 60s. 

Sunday night through about Tuesday looks rather unsettled. Guidance 
continues to show a series of shortwaves moving through over the 
early part of the week. At the surface, weakening low pressure will 
come out of the southeast US, moving towards our area. The weak 
surface low looks to move through sometime Monday. Tried to 
concentrate the highest PoPs around this time, with Likely PoPs in 
for the Monday afternoon/Monday evening period. For Monday morning, 
Tuesday morning, and Tuesday afternoon, went Chc PoPs as some 
scattered showers will be in the area. Confidence remains low 
overall for the early part of next week. Daytime Highs/Nighttime 
lows Sunday Night through Wednesday look to be above normal for late 
October. 

More tranquil weather looks to come in for the middle of next week 
as high pressure builds in. 

&&

.AVIATION /19Z WEDNESDAY THROUGH MONDAY/...
The following discussion is for KPHL, KPNE, KTTN, KABE, KRDG, KILG, 
KMIV, KACY and surrounding areas.

Rest of this afternoon...IFR to MVFR ceilings. Some mainly light 
showers will be around which will reduce the local visibility for a 
brief time. Southwest winds 5-8 knots. Low confidence if ceilings 
improve to VFR by evening.

Tonight...Lingering MVFR ceilings especially at MIV and ACY early, 
otherwise a VFR ceiling may scatter out some overnight. A few 
showers early. Southwest winds 3-6 knots becoming locally light and 
variable for a time this evening, then becoming west to northwest 5-
10 knots overnight. Moderate confidence. 

Thursday...VFR with any early clouds clearing out. North-northwest 
winds 10-15 knots with gusts to around 20 knots. High
confidence.

Outlook...

Thursday night...VFR. N to NE winds 5 to 10 kts. High confidence.

Friday...VFR. NE winds 5 to 15 kts. High confidence.

Friday night...VFR. NE 5 to 10 kts. High confidence.

Saturday...VFR. NE winds 5 to 15 kts. High confidence.

Saturday Night...sub-VFR conditions possible with north/northeast 
onshore flow funneling in some low level moisture. North/Northeast 
winds around 5 kt or less. Moderate confidence. 

Sunday through Sunday Night...sub-VFR conditions possible as 
easterly onshore flow continues. East winds around 10 kt, gusting up 
to 20 kt primarily near the coast. Showers begin to move in on 
Sunday night. Moderate confidence. 

Monday through Monday night...sub-VFR conditions likely with 
easterly flow continuing and scattered showers/steady rain moving 
through. East winds around 5-10 kt. Moderate confidence. 

&&

.MARINE...
The conditions are anticipated to be below Small Craft Advisory 
criteria through Thursday, however a north-northwest wind will 
increase and turn gusty. The greatest chance of just reaching 
advisory criteria looks to be either late in the day and especially 
Thursday evening. Otherwise, a wind shift will occur later tonight 
as a cold front moves through.

Outlook...

Thursday night...SCA conditions expected. NE winds 15 to 25 kts. 
Seas 3 to 6 ft.

Friday...SCA conditions expected. NE winds 15 to 25 kts. Seas 4 to 6 
ft.

Friday night...SCA conditions expected. NE winds 15 to 25 kts. Seas 
4 to 7 ft.

Saturday...SCA conditions expected. NE winds 15 to 25 kts. Seas 4 to 
7 ft.

Saturday Night...SCA conditions anticipated. Northeast winds around 
15-20 kt, gusting up to 25 kt. Seas 4 to 6 feet. 

Sunday through Sunday Night...SCA conditions anticipated. 
East/northeast winds around 17-22 kt, gusting up to 27 kt. Seas 4 to 
7 feet. 

Monday through Monday Night...SCA conditions anticipated. 
East/Southeast winds around 10-15 kt, gusting up to 20 kt. Seas 4 to 
6 feet. 

&&

.TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
As we move from the new moon on the 25th into a waxing crescent, 
coastal waters remain elevated. That said, it doesn't take much of 
an onshore flow to generate some impacts. In this case, minor 
impacts. We're seeing some spotty minor tidal flooding today aided 
by the prolonged onshore flow we just had. We're not expecting any 
flooding tomorrow with the northwest winds. We could see some minor 
flooding once again on Friday as winds back to the northeast. Wind 
speeds along the coast will likely be in the 15 to 25 mph range on 
Friday.

&&

.PHI WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
PA...None.
NJ...None.
DE...None.
MD...None.
MARINE...None.

&&

$$
SYNOPSIS...Kruzdlo
NEAR TERM...Gorse
SHORT TERM...Kruzdlo
LONG TERM...Hoeflich
AVIATION...Gorse/Hoeflich/Kruzdlo
MARINE...Gorse/Hoeflich/Kruzdlo
TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...Kruzdlo
