331 
FXUS61 KPHI 261102
AFDPHI

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Mount Holly NJ
702 AM EDT Wed Oct 26 2022

.SYNOPSIS...
A cold front crosses our region tonight bringing a chance of scattered
showers. Strong high pressure builds across the Great Lakes region
Thursday, then slides to our north Friday, and more into our area
over the weekend. An area of low pressure approaches from the southwest
late Sunday, then should move through early next week with rain chances
returning.

&&

.NEAR TERM /THROUGH TONIGHT/...
Abundant low level moisture has resulted in another morning of 
low clouds and fog. Visibilities down to a quarter mile have 
been found along the coasts inland to about the I-95 corridor 
this morning. The Dense Fog Advisory remains in effect through 
10am this morning. The good news is that this will be the last 
day of the dreary conditions.

A weak shortwave is currently lifting north through the area 
this morning on the periphery of a mid-level closed low across 
western Pennsylvania. Any precipitation as a result will likely
be in the form of drizzle or light showers as BUFKIT soundings 
indicate a shallow saturated near-surface layer beneath mid- 
level dry air. The aforementioned closed low will become an open
wave and obtain a negative tilt as it progresses north and east
through the area. Winds will shift out of the south this 
afternoon ahead of a surface cold front that will pass through 
this evening. It's possible that we could see a brief decrease 
in cloud coverage this afternoon ahead of the front, though 
likely not enough to bring out a whole lot of sun. The majority 
of the upper forcing for ascent will stay off to our west, and 
thus only expected scattered showers with the front this 
evening. Highs today will reach the upper 60s to near 70 in 
spots.

Clouds are then expected to clear overnight into Thursday morning 
behind the front as winds shift to the northwest and usher in much 
drier air. As the pressure gradient tightens a bit tonight behind 
the front and ahead of building high pressure, winds will increase 
some as well. Lows will dip into the low 50s with 40s in the Poconos.

&&

.SHORT TERM /THURSDAY THROUGH FRIDAY NIGHT/...
A couple of nice days arriving for the end of the 
work week. strong high pressure across Michigan Thursday morning 
will bring a NW flow of cool and dry air across the Middle Atlantic 
region. The high will edge into NY Friday and then move into New 
England Fri night. This setup will guard our area from rains or 
significant cloudiness for Thu/Fri. Temperatures will be within a 
few degrees of normal with mostly 60s for highs and 40s for lows. 
The NW areas will more likely have lows in the mid/upper 30s, which 
is close to normal there.

&&

.LONG TERM /SATURDAY THROUGH TUESDAY/...
For the upcoming weekend, strong high pressure will be across the 
area Saturday before weakening Sunday. For all practical purposes. 
it will be a dry weekend even though some small chance pops are in 
the grids for Delmarva Sun afternoon. Temperatures will remain near 
normal for late October with highs mostly in the 60s and lows mostly 
40s S/E and mid/upper 30s N/W for Sun morning. 

As the high continues to weaken and move away early next week, we 
will once again return to a mostly onshore flow as low pressure 
circulates well SE of the area. Added shortwave energy arriving from 
the SE states will promote higher chances for rains Mon/Mon night 
and the NBM high chc/likely pops were accepted attm. For Tue, as the 
upper energy moves away, pops were reduced for NBM numbers with 
mostly chc pops forecast for that time. Temperatures into the middle 
of next week, will generally be above normal.

&&

.AVIATION /12Z WEDNESDAY THROUGH SUNDAY/...
Today...Low ceilings and visibility this morning with gradual 
improvements through the day. VLIFR/LIFR conditions becoming 
IFR/MVFR this afternoon. A chance of showers. Southwesterly 
winds around 5 knots. Moderate to high confidence in improving 
conditions throughout the day, but low to moderate confidence in
the timing of improving conditions.

Tonight...Lingering MVFR conditions possible, then all sites
expected to become VFR with KACY/KMIV likely taking a bit longer
to do so. A chance of showers. Southwest winds 5 knots or less 
becoming northwesterly overnight. Moderate confidence. 

Outlook...

Thu and Friday...VFR. Gusty winds Thu afternoon and evening. 

Saturday and Sunday...VFR expected. Increasing clouds Sunday.

&&

.MARINE...
A Marine Dense Fog Advisory is in effect until 10 AM EDT 
for all Atlantic coastal waters and the Delaware Bay. Visibilities 
less than 1 NM are expected with areas as low as 1/4 NM possible. 
The fog is expected to disperse by late morning and give way to 
mostly cloudy conditions.

No marine headlines are expected for today and tonight. Northerly 
winds 5-10 knots this morning will become southwesterly this 
afternoon around 10 knots. Seas are expected to be 3-4 feet on the 
ocean waters and 2 feet or less in the Delaware Bay. Seas may 
approach SCA criteria early Thursday morning.

Outlook...

Thu...sub-SCA conditions with Fair weather. Some gusts around 
20 kts at times. 

Thu night thru Sun...SCA expected with building seas Sat-Sun as
an offshore low brings enhanced seas to the area.

&&

.TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
The recent period of prolonged onshore flow diminishes after 
today. Since the E/SE flow will be around for the morning high
tide, we will probably have some spotty minor tidal flooding 
with most sites remaining just below the Advisory criteria. The
guidance is mostly right at Advisory levels, but has been 
running slightly high as of late. We will monitor through the
morning.

&&

.PHI WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
PA...Dense Fog Advisory until 10 AM EDT this morning for PAZ070-071-
     102>106.
NJ...Dense Fog Advisory until 10 AM EDT this morning for NJZ009-010-
     012>027.
DE...Dense Fog Advisory until 10 AM EDT this morning for DEZ001>004.
MD...None.
MARINE...Dense Fog Advisory until 10 AM EDT this morning for ANZ430-431-
     450>455.

&&

$$
SYNOPSIS...OHara
NEAR TERM...Brudy
SHORT TERM...OHara
LONG TERM...OHara
AVIATION...Brudy/OHara
MARINE...Brudy/OHara
TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...WFO PHI
