163 
FXUS61 KPHI 261842
AFDPHI

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Mount Holly NJ
242 PM EDT Wed Oct 26 2022

.SYNOPSIS...
A cold front crosses our region tonight. Strong high pressure 
builds across the Great Lakes region Thursday, then slides to 
our north Friday, and more into our area over the weekend. An 
area of low pressure approaches from the southwest late Sunday, 
then should move through early next week with rain chances 
returning.

&&

.NEAR TERM /THROUGH THURSDAY/...
The weather pattern makes a transition tonight, finally ending the 
low clouds and fog that have dominated our weather for the last 
several days.

An upper-level trough lifting from the upper Ohio Valley to across 
the Great Lakes through early this evening takes on a negative tilt. 
This will take weak low pressure with it, however an associated cold 
front will cross our region tonight. The bulk of forcing for ascent 
just glances parts of our region, however some weak short wave 
energy out ahead of the trough is helping to produce some showers 
this afternoon especially the western areas. As the cold front 
arrives, it looks like it moves through with little to no shower 
activity as the deeper moisture is already shifting more east. A 
wind shift to the west and northwest will take place in the wake of 
the cold front tonight, and as cold air advection kicks in along 
with a developing tightening pressure gradient the breeze should 
increase especially toward daybreak Thursday. The dew points will 
lower in the wake of the cold front. Despite the drying through the 
night, some cloudiness looks to hang on as we transition into a new 
air mass. Low temperatures will be in the mid/upper 40s to low 50s.

As we go through Thursday, strong high pressure across the Great 
Lakes will slowly build eastward as the flow aloft turns more zonal 
for a time. Some lingering clouds early will given way to plenty of 
sunshine. Due to the incoming strong surface high, the pressure 
gradient tightens across our region. The model forecast soundings 
indicate decent mixing during the day and this will result in a 
notable/gusty north-northwest wind. The mixing will also enhance the 
lowering of the surface dew points especially from the I-95 corridor 
on north and west, with values forecast to drop into the 30s. 
Daytime temperatures are forecast to warm into the mid/upper 60s 
(cooler across the Poconos).

&&

.SHORT TERM /THURSDAY NIGHT THROUGH FRIDAY NIGHT/...
High pressure will edge into NY Friday and then move into New 
England Fri night. This setup will guard our area from rains or 
significant cloudiness for Thu/Fri. Temperatures will be within 
a few degrees of normal with mostly 60s for highs and 40s for 
lows. The NW areas will more likely have lows in the mid/upper 
30s, which is close to normal there.

&&

.LONG TERM /SATURDAY THROUGH TUESDAY/...
For the upcoming weekend, strong high pressure will be across the 
area Saturday before weakening Sunday. For all practical purposes. 
it will be a dry weekend even though some small chance pops are in 
the grids for Delmarva Sun afternoon. Temperatures will remain near 
normal for late October with highs mostly in the 60s and lows mostly 
40s S/E and mid/upper 30s N/W for Sun morning. 

As the high continues to weaken and move away early next week, we 
will once again return to a mostly onshore flow as low pressure 
circulates well SE of the area. Added shortwave energy arriving from 
the SE states will promote higher chances for rains Mon/Mon night 
and the NBM high chc/likely pops were accepted attm. For Tue, as the 
upper energy moves away, pops were reduced for NBM numbers with 
mostly chc pops forecast for that time. Temperatures into the middle 
of next week, will generally be above normal.

&&

.AVIATION /19Z WEDNESDAY THROUGH MONDAY/...
The following discussion is for KPHL, KPNE, KTTN, KABE, KRDG, KILG, 
KMIV, KACY and surrounding areas.

Rest of this afternoon...IFR to MVFR ceilings. Some mainly light 
showers will be around which will reduce the local visibility for a 
brief time. Southwest winds 5-8 knots. Low confidence if ceilings 
improve to VFR by evening.

Tonight...Lingering MVFR ceilings especially at MIV and ACY early, 
otherwise a VFR ceiling may scatter out some overnight. A few 
showers early. Southwest winds 3-6 knots becoming locally light and 
variable for a time this evening, then becoming west to northwest 5-
10 knots overnight. Moderate confidence. 

Thursday...VFR with any early clouds clearing out. North-northwest 
winds 10-15 knots with gusts to around 20 knots. High
confidence.

Outlook...

Thu and Friday...VFR. Gusty winds Thu afternoon and evening. 

Saturday and Sunday...VFR expected. Increasing clouds Sunday.

&&

.MARINE...
The conditions are anticipated to be below Small Craft Advisory 
criteria through Thursday, however a north-northwest wind will 
increase and turn gusty. The greatest chance of just reaching 
advisory criteria looks to be either late in the day and especially 
Thursday evening. Otherwise, a wind shift will occur later tonight 
as a cold front moves through.

Outlook...

Thu night thru Sun...SCA expected with building seas Sat-Sun as
an offshore low brings enhanced seas to the area.

&&

.TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
The recent period of prolonged onshore flow diminishes after 
today. Since the E/SE flow will be around for the morning high
tide, we will probably have some spotty minor tidal flooding 
with most sites remaining just below the Advisory criteria. The
guidance is mostly right at Advisory levels, but has been 
running slightly high as of late. We will monitor through the
morning.

&&

.PHI WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
PA...None.
NJ...None.
DE...None.
MD...None.
MARINE...None.

&&

$$
SYNOPSIS...OHara
NEAR TERM...Gorse
SHORT TERM...OHara
LONG TERM...OHara
AVIATION...Gorse/OHara
MARINE...Gorse/OHara
TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
