828 
FXUS61 KPHI 261716
AFDPHI

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Mount Holly NJ
116 PM EDT Wed Oct 26 2022

.SYNOPSIS...
A cold front crosses our region tonight. Strong high pressure 
builds across the Great Lakes region Thursday, then slides to 
our north Friday, and more into our area over the weekend. An 
area of low pressure approaches from the southwest late Sunday, 
then should move through early next week with rain chances 
returning.

&&

.NEAR TERM /THROUGH TONIGHT/...
As of 100 PM, the low clouds have been stubborn although trends
in the visible satellite imagery shows some breaks in the 
clouds. Some additional gradual improvements should occur 
through the remainder of the afternoon as our weather pattern is
undergoing a transition. The extent of the lower cloud deck is 
also slowing the temperature rise so far in several places. 
Some mainly light showers will continue to lift northward across
parts of the area (highest PoPs across the western zones).

The closed low to our west will become an open wave and obtain 
a negative tilt as it progresses north and east through the 
area. Winds will shift out of the south this afternoon ahead of 
a surface cold front that will pass through this evening. The 
majority of the upper forcing for ascent will stay off to our 
west, and thus only expecting isolated or scattered showers with
the front this evening. Highs today will reach the upper 60s to
near 70 in spots.

Clouds are then expected to clear overnight into Thursday morning 
behind the front as winds shift to the northwest and usher in much 
drier air. As the pressure gradient tightens a bit tonight behind 
the front and ahead of building high pressure, winds will increase 
some as well. Lows will dip into the low 50s with 40s in the Poconos.

&&

.SHORT TERM /THURSDAY THROUGH FRIDAY NIGHT/...
A couple of nice days arriving for the end of the 
work week. strong high pressure across Michigan Thursday morning 
will bring a NW flow of cool and dry air across the Middle Atlantic 
region. The high will edge into NY Friday and then move into New 
England Fri night. This setup will guard our area from rains or 
significant cloudiness for Thu/Fri. Temperatures will be within a 
few degrees of normal with mostly 60s for highs and 40s for lows. 
The NW areas will more likely have lows in the mid/upper 30s, which 
is close to normal there.

&&

.LONG TERM /SATURDAY THROUGH TUESDAY/...
For the upcoming weekend, strong high pressure will be across the 
area Saturday before weakening Sunday. For all practical purposes. 
it will be a dry weekend even though some small chance pops are in 
the grids for Delmarva Sun afternoon. Temperatures will remain near 
normal for late October with highs mostly in the 60s and lows mostly 
40s S/E and mid/upper 30s N/W for Sun morning. 

As the high continues to weaken and move away early next week, we 
will once again return to a mostly onshore flow as low pressure 
circulates well SE of the area. Added shortwave energy arriving from 
the SE states will promote higher chances for rains Mon/Mon night 
and the NBM high chc/likely pops were accepted attm. For Tue, as the 
upper energy moves away, pops were reduced for NBM numbers with 
mostly chc pops forecast for that time. Temperatures into the middle 
of next week, will generally be above normal.

&&

.AVIATION /17Z WEDNESDAY THROUGH SUNDAY/...
The following discussion is for KPHL, KPNE, KTTN, KABE, KRDG, KILG, 
KMIV, KACY and surrounding areas.

This afternoon...IFR ceilings (localized lingering LIFR) should
improve to MVFR by late afternoon. Some mainly light showers 
will be around which will reduce the local visibility for a
time. Included a TEMPO group at several terminals for the
showers. South to southwest winds 5-8 knots. Low confidence in 
the timing details of additional improving conditions.

Tonight...Lingering MVFR ceilings especially at MIV and ACY
early, otherwise a VFR ceilings should scatter some overnight. 
A chance of a few showers early. Southwest winds 5 knots or less
becoming west to northwest 5-10 knots overnight. Moderate 
confidence. 

Thursday...VFR with any early clouds clearing out. North-northwest 
winds 10-15 knots with gusts to around 20 knots. High confidence.

Outlook...

Thu and Friday...VFR. Gusty winds Thu afternoon and evening. 

Saturday and Sunday...VFR expected. Increasing clouds Sunday.

&&

.MARINE...
As of 100 PM, based on coastal web cams and visible satellite
imagery trends allowed the Marine Dense Fog Advisory to expire.
While some fog remains, the visibilities look more improved.

No marine headlines are expected for today and tonight. Northerly 
winds 5-10 knots this morning will become southwesterly this 
afternoon around 10 knots. Seas are expected to be 3-4 feet on the 
ocean waters and 2 feet or less in the Delaware Bay. Seas may 
approach SCA criteria early Thursday morning.

Outlook...

Thu...sub-SCA conditions with Fair weather. Some gusts around 
20 kts at times. 

Thu night thru Sun...SCA expected with building seas Sat-Sun as
an offshore low brings enhanced seas to the area.

&&

.TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
The recent period of prolonged onshore flow diminishes after 
today. Since the E/SE flow will be around for the morning high
tide, we will probably have some spotty minor tidal flooding 
with most sites remaining just below the Advisory criteria. The
guidance is mostly right at Advisory levels, but has been 
running slightly high as of late. We will monitor through the
morning.

&&

.PHI WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
PA...None.
NJ...None.
DE...None.
MD...None.
MARINE...None.

&&

$$
SYNOPSIS...OHara
NEAR TERM...Brudy/Gorse
SHORT TERM...OHara
LONG TERM...OHara
AVIATION...Brudy/Gorse/OHara
MARINE...Brudy/Gorse/OHara
TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
