913 
FXUS61 KPHI 261508
AFDPHI

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Mount Holly NJ
1108 AM EDT Wed Oct 26 2022

.SYNOPSIS...
A cold front crosses our region tonight. Strong high pressure 
builds across the Great Lakes region Thursday, then slides to 
our north Friday, and more into our area over the weekend. An 
area of low pressure approaches from the southwest late Sunday, 
then should move through early next week with rain chances 
returning.

&&

.NEAR TERM /THROUGH TONIGHT/...
As of 1100 AM, the visibilities continue to improve and therefore
the remainder of the Dense Fog Advisory has been cancelled. Low
ceilings are slow so far to rise, however a very slow improvement
is occurring for some areas. This is also keeping temperatures 
from rising much so far. Some light showers continue to lift 
northward across parts of eastern Pennsylvania to Delmarva 
associated with a weak shortwave.

The closed low to our west will become an open wave and obtain 
a negative tilt as it progresses north and east through the 
area. Winds will shift out of the south this afternoon ahead of 
a surface cold front that will pass through this evening. It's 
possible that we could see a brief decrease in cloud coverage 
later this afternoon ahead of the front, though likely not 
enough to bring out a whole lot of sun. The majority of the 
upper forcing for ascent will stay off to our west, and thus 
only expecting isolated or scattered showers with the front 
this evening. Highs today will reach the upper 60s to near 70 in
spots.

Clouds are then expected to clear overnight into Thursday morning 
behind the front as winds shift to the northwest and usher in much 
drier air. As the pressure gradient tightens a bit tonight behind 
the front and ahead of building high pressure, winds will increase 
some as well. Lows will dip into the low 50s with 40s in the Poconos.

&&

.SHORT TERM /THURSDAY THROUGH FRIDAY NIGHT/...
A couple of nice days arriving for the end of the 
work week. strong high pressure across Michigan Thursday morning 
will bring a NW flow of cool and dry air across the Middle Atlantic 
region. The high will edge into NY Friday and then move into New 
England Fri night. This setup will guard our area from rains or 
significant cloudiness for Thu/Fri. Temperatures will be within a 
few degrees of normal with mostly 60s for highs and 40s for lows. 
The NW areas will more likely have lows in the mid/upper 30s, which 
is close to normal there.

&&

.LONG TERM /SATURDAY THROUGH TUESDAY/...
For the upcoming weekend, strong high pressure will be across the 
area Saturday before weakening Sunday. For all practical purposes. 
it will be a dry weekend even though some small chance pops are in 
the grids for Delmarva Sun afternoon. Temperatures will remain near 
normal for late October with highs mostly in the 60s and lows mostly 
40s S/E and mid/upper 30s N/W for Sun morning. 

As the high continues to weaken and move away early next week, we 
will once again return to a mostly onshore flow as low pressure 
circulates well SE of the area. Added shortwave energy arriving from 
the SE states will promote higher chances for rains Mon/Mon night 
and the NBM high chc/likely pops were accepted attm. For Tue, as the 
upper energy moves away, pops were reduced for NBM numbers with 
mostly chc pops forecast for that time. Temperatures into the middle 
of next week, will generally be above normal.

&&

.AVIATION /15Z WEDNESDAY THROUGH SUNDAY/...
The following discussion is for KPHL, KPNE, KTTN, KABE, KRDG, KILG, 
KMIV, KACY and surrounding areas.

Rest of today...VLIFR/LIFR conditions becoming IFR/MVFR late
this morning and especially this afternoon. A few showers will
be around, however these are expected to be light. Southeast 
winds around 5 knots, becoming south or southwest. Low 
confidence in the timing of improving conditions.

Tonight...Lingering MVFR conditions possible early, then all 
sites expected to become VFR with ACY/MIV  taking a bit longer 
to improve. A chance of a few showers early. Southwest winds 5 
knots or less becoming northwesterly 5-10 knots overnight. 
Moderate confidence. 

Outlook...

Thu and Friday...VFR. Gusty winds Thu afternoon and evening. 

Saturday and Sunday...VFR expected. Increasing clouds Sunday.

&&

.MARINE...
As of 940 AM, extended the Marine Dense Fog Advisory until 1 PM
as coastal web cams show quite a bit of fog remaining over the
waters especially nearshore. Visibilities as low as 1/4 NM 
are expected. The fog is expected to disperse this afternoon.

No marine headlines are expected for today and tonight. Northerly 
winds 5-10 knots this morning will become southwesterly this 
afternoon around 10 knots. Seas are expected to be 3-4 feet on the 
ocean waters and 2 feet or less in the Delaware Bay. Seas may 
approach SCA criteria early Thursday morning.

Outlook...

Thu...sub-SCA conditions with Fair weather. Some gusts around 
20 kts at times. 

Thu night thru Sun...SCA expected with building seas Sat-Sun as
an offshore low brings enhanced seas to the area.

&&

.TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
The recent period of prolonged onshore flow diminishes after 
today. Since the E/SE flow will be around for the morning high
tide, we will probably have some spotty minor tidal flooding 
with most sites remaining just below the Advisory criteria. The
guidance is mostly right at Advisory levels, but has been 
running slightly high as of late. We will monitor through the
morning.

&&

.PHI WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
PA...None.
NJ...None.
DE...None.
MD...None.
MARINE...Dense Fog Advisory until 1 PM EDT this afternoon for ANZ430-
     431-450>455.

&&

$$
SYNOPSIS...OHara
NEAR TERM...Brudy/Gorse
SHORT TERM...OHara
LONG TERM...OHara
AVIATION...Brudy/Gorse/OHara
MARINE...Brudy/Gorse/OHara
TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
