332 
FXUS61 KPHI 260151
AFDPHI

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Mount Holly NJ
951 PM EDT Tue Oct 25 2022

.SYNOPSIS...
An area of low pressure will track well off of our coast tonight 
into Wednesday, then a cold front crosses our region Wednesday 
night. Strong high pressure builds across the Great Lakes region 
Thursday, then builds to our north Friday and more into our area 
over the weekend. An area of low pressure approaches from the 
southwest late Sunday, then should move through early next week.

&&

.NEAR TERM /THROUGH WEDNESDAY/...
A surface ridge extending down the East Coast is forecast to 
remain in place tonight as low pressure located well off Cape 
Hatteras progresses northward. The remnants of the ridge are 
expected to break down on Wednesday as a cold front approaches 
from the west.

The main ingredient affecting our weather for tonight and Wednesday 
will be the abundant low level moisture. It will continue to be 
reinforced by the subtle onshore flow that is anticipated into 
Wednesday morning. Ceilings have once again begun to lower and
fog has begun to develop and move inland along the shores. A
Dense Fog Advisory has been issued for both coastal and inland
portions of counties from Monmouth County south to Cape May and
Cumberland counties. In locations outside the advisory, 
localized patches of dense fog remain possible. We will monitor 
trends into the overnight hours to determine if an expansion of 
the Dense Fog Advisory is warranted. Otherwise, we are 
continuing to forecast low clouds, areas of fog and drizzle, and
spotty light rain. Tonight's low temperatures should favor the 
upper 50s and lower 60s.

A mid level impulse is expected to lift northeastward over our 
region on Wednesday morning. The feature should promote some mixing 
of the atmosphere and the wind is forecast to become south to 
southwest for Wednesday afternoon. As a result, conditions may 
improve on Wednesday more than they did today. However, a mostly 
cloudy sky remains likely. There is a continued chance of showers. 
Breaks in the cloud cover in the afternoon should allow temperatures 
to climb into the upper 60s and lower 70s at most locations.

&&

.SHORT TERM /WEDNESDAY NIGHT THROUGH FRIDAY NIGHT/...
A negative tilt upper-level trough is forecast to be lifting north 
of the eastern Great Lakes to start Wednesday night. This will drive 
weak low pressure with it, however an associated cold front will 
cross our region Wednesday night. The bulk of forcing for ascent 
looks to just glance parts of our region, therefore shower activity 
should be limited ahead of and with the cold front. A wind shift to 
the west and northwest will take place in the wake of the cold front 
Wednesday night, and the dew points will start to lower as well.

As we go through Thursday, high pressure across the Great Lakes and 
some flat upper ridging/weak height rises occur. This will result in 
a dry day with a return of the sunshine. Looks like we will mix 
pretty well during the day, and with a tightened pressure gradient 
in place ahead of the strong surface high a notable northwesterly 
breeze is expected and this will help lower the dew points more. The 
winds will diminish some Thursday night and also start to turn out 
of the north and northeast. Expect highs in the mid/upper 60s for 
most, and lows will be cooler than the previous night in the 40s 
(30s in the Poconos).

A more southwesterly flow aloft for Friday with strong surface high 
pressure centered to our north but extends southward over our 
region. Our low-level flow is more out of the northeast and this 
should result in some cloudiness moving in from off the ocean, 
especially southern New Jersey to parts of our Delmarva zones. It 
will be a battle between the drier air with the surface high and 
also its subsidence to some moistening of the low levels due to the 
northeasterly flow. We will keep the forecast dry but indicate a bit 
more cloud cover especially across the above mentioned areas. 
Daytime high temperatures will be cooler given the influence of the 
high to our north and a northeast low-level flow.

&&

.LONG TERM /SATURDAY THROUGH TUESDAY/...
Summary...Temperatures at or above average and it may turn unsettled 
late in the weekend but especially early next week.

Synoptic Overview...A weak upper-level trough may slide by during 
Saturday, otherwise a closed low across the southern Plains may open 
up as it lifts northeastward over the weekend and across the Great 
Lakes early next week. Strong high pressure centered to our north 
but builds southward over our area Saturday will start to shift east 
during Sunday, then offshore of New England Monday. A surface low 
will accompany the aforementioned trough moving up across the Great 
Lakes and it is forecast to be approaching late Sunday into Monday. 
It should then cross our area Tuesday. The evolution of the features 
late in the weekend and early next week is more uncertain.

For Saturday and Sunday...Strong high pressure anchored to our north 
will continue to envelop our area Saturday before gradually shifting 
off the New England coast during Sunday. While the surface high 
protects us and delivers a nice weekend, we may have to watch for 
some lower cloudiness within the onshore flow Saturday especially 
with perhaps some sprinkles or a shower along the coast. That 
potential looks to be on the low side at this point as there should 
be enough subsidence and drier air in place. Otherwise, a closed low 
across the southern Plains to start Saturday is forecast to 
gradually lift northeastward over the weekend. It may tend to weaken 
some with time, however the slowness of this feature may result in a 
dry Sunday as well. The overall model consensus looks to hold off 
most if not all of the precipitation until Monday. Clouds however 
should be on the increase Sunday, especially the second half of the 
day. Daytime temperatures look to be into the 60s for much of the 
area both days. 

For Monday and Tuesday...The driving force of our sensible weather 
will be an upper-level trough that is forecast to be opening up as 
it lifts up through the Great Lakes region and the Northeast. This 
will toss surface low pressure very near or over our area late 
Monday into Tuesday. There looks to be decent moisture return ahead 
of and with this feature as surface high pressure to our northeast 
has given way. Forcing for ascent overspreading our area looks to 
result in some showers or possibly even a period of rain with this 
feature as it moves through. Given some uncertainty with the 
details, opted to keep PoPs no higher than the chance range. 
Temperatures should be milder overall along with increasing dew 
points, although the extent of the showers/rain will determine the 
temperature details.

&&

.AVIATION /02Z WEDNESDAY THROUGH SUNDAY/...
The following discussion is for KPHL, KPNE, KTTN, KABE, KRDG, KILG, 
KMIV, KACY and surrounding areas.

Tonight...Ceilings and visibility values lowering to IFR/LIFR. Areas 
of fog and drizzle developing. A chance of showers. Variable wind 6 
knots or less. High confidence.

Wednesday...IFR/LIFR conditions in the morning with areas of fog and 
drizzle. Conditions improving to MVFR or VFR in the afternoon. A 
chance of showers. Low to medium confidence regarding the timing of 
the improving conditions.

Outlook...

Wednesday night...MVFR ceilings possible to start, otherwise VFR. A 
few showers are possible. Southwest winds 4-8 knots becoming west to 
northwest overnight. Low confidence.

Thursday...VFR with decreasing clouds. Northwest to north-northwest 
winds 10-15 knots with gusts to around 20 knots, diminishing some at 
night and becoming north to north-northeast. Moderate confidence.

Friday and Saturday...VFR overall. Northeasterly winds around 
10 knots. Moderate confidence.

Sunday...VFR overall with increasing clouds. Northeasterly winds
5-10 knots. Low confidence.

&&

.MARINE...
A Marine Dense Fog Advisory is now in effect until 10 AM EDT for
all Atlantic coastal waters and the Delaware Bay. Visibilities
less than 1 NM are expected with areas as low as 1/4 NM
possible. 

A northeast to east wind 5 to 10 knots tonight is forecast to become 
southerly around 10 knots on Wednesday. Waves on our ocean waters 
should be 3 to 4 feet with waves on Delaware Bay at 2 feet or
less.

Outlook...

Wednesday night...The conditions are anticipated to be below Small 
Craft Advisory criteria.

Thursday and Friday...Small Craft Advisory conditions probable 
Thursday night through Friday, mainly on the New Jersey and Delaware 
Atlantic coastal waters. Northeast winds increase with gusts 25-30 
knots along with building seas.

Saturday...Small Craft Advisory conditions may persist across much 
of the New Jersey and Delaware Atlantic coastal waters.

Sunday...Small Craft Advisory conditions, mainly for elevated seas,
possible on the New Jersey and Delaware Atlantic coastal waters.

&&

.TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...
A period of prolonged easterly onshore flow through Wednesday 
afternoon may result in some mostly spotty minor tidal flooding
with the Wednesday morning high tide cycle. Confidence in the 
extent and the locations that may be impacted is on the lower 
side at this time.

&&

.PHI WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
PA...None.
NJ...Dense Fog Advisory until 10 AM EDT Wednesday for NJZ013-014-
     020>027.
DE...None.
MD...None.
MARINE...Dense Fog Advisory until 10 AM EDT Wednesday for ANZ430-431-
     450>455.

&&

$$
SYNOPSIS...Gorse
NEAR TERM...AKL/Iovino
SHORT TERM...Brudy/Gorse
LONG TERM...Gorse
AVIATION...AKL/Gorse/Iovino
MARINE...AKL/Gorse/Iovino
TIDES/COASTAL FLOODING...WFO PHI
