606 
FXUS63 KOAX 260803
AFDOAX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Omaha/Valley NE
303 AM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

.DISCUSSION...
Issued at 302 AM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

.Key Points:

* Increasing rain chances tonight through Thursday
* Dry this weekend into early next week with near-seasonal 
  daytime temperatures

.Today:

Early morning water vapor imagery shows a vigorous shortwave 
trough over WA/OR with a weaker vorticity maximum over UT. The UT 
disturbance is forecast accelerate northeast into SD/NE today 
ahead of the WA/OR system, which will strengthen further while 
progressing southeast into the Great Basin. Increased forcing for 
ascent attendant to the approaching UT impulse will promote 
increasing cloudiness this afternoon with isolated, light rain 
showers or sprinkles possible. The antecedent air mass will be 
quite dry, so considerable top-down saturation will be necessary 
to get precipitation to the ground.

High temperatures will be in the upper 50s to low 60s.

.Tonight into Thursday night:

The Great Basin shortwave trough mentioned above is forecast to
intensify into a closed, midlevel low over the Four Corners region
on Thursday with the system continuing into western TX on Thursday
night. In the low levels, a deepening surface low over eastern CO
today will develop south into western TX on Thursday. Meanwhile, 
an inverted, low- to midlevel trough will shift east from the 
northern/central High Plains into central parts of SD/NE/KS on 
Thursday. 

The deepening of the midlevel system over the southern Rockies will
induce the development of a low-level jet (LLJ) over the Great 
Plains tonight with that feature gradually weakening over the 
course of the day on Thursday. Low-level warm advection 
enhancement along the LLJ coupled with convergence along and east
of the inverted trough will be the primary mechanisms driving the
development of a precipitation shield over portions of the 
central Plains tonight and Thursday. 

Latest NBM probabilistic 24-h (06z Thu - 06z Fri) QPF data 
indicate a slight amplification in median totals with a 
latitudinal sharpening of the primary precipitation corridor for 
this event. This model trend would suggest that the individual 
members of the ensemble are coming into better agreement in the 
location of the higher precipitation amounts. Now, it appears that
the preferred corridor for potential rainfall amounts greater 
than 0.1" will be along and west of U.S. 81 with decreasing 
potential for measurable precipitation with eastward extent toward
the MO River. Rainfall amounts of up to 0.25" are most probable 
in the preferred precipitation corridor with a potential range of 
around 0.05" (25th percentile) to upwards of 0.5" (75th 
percentile) in that same area.

In regard to precipitation timing, there will be a continuation of
this afternoon's light-rainfall potential into evening over northeast
NE (20-40% PoPs). The next wave of showers (along the LLJ axis) 
is expected to materialize over central NE late tonight with that 
activity shifting east into our area on Thursday. We will indicate
the highest PoPs (60-80%) over northeast NE, decreasing to 20-30%
along and east of the MO River. Precipitation chances then 
diminish areawide on Thursday evening.

High temperatures on Thursday will be a function of precipitation
coverage and cloud cover. In general, we expect that readings will
be coolest (50-55) in northeast NE with slightly warmer conditions
(55-60) elsewhere.

.Friday through Tuesday:

The 00z EPS, GEFS, and CMCE 500-mb mean height anomaly forecasts
suggest that the midlevel low over TX will continue east into the
lower-MS Valley on Saturday with a transition to broader 
troughing from the Midwest into south-central U.S. from Sunday 
into early next week. Elsewhere, low-amplitude ridging in the
midlevels is forecast to spread east across the northern Plains 
and upper-MS Valley in the Friday-Saturday timeframe with a trend
toward falling midlevel heights/troughing over western Canada and
the northern tier of states early next week. That upper-air 
pattern evolution would support a dry forecast with high 
temperatures near or slightly above seasonal normals.

&&

.AVIATION...(For the 06Z TAFS through 06Z Wednesday night)
Issued at 1127 PM CDT Tue Oct 25 2022

VFR criteria to prevail for the TAF period. There are a few 
potential impacts to aviation. There is a low probability for fog 
in southwest Iowa and along the Missouri River. Skies are clear 
and the wind speeds are fairly calm. This time of year those 
conditions can lead to fog. However, dew points are a few degrees 
too low. Higher dew points do exist in the aforementioned areas so
patchy fog is possible in those locations.

Winds will shift tomorrow from the north to the south beginning
around 15Z. Sustained winds are expected to remain under 10 kts. 

There is a 20 to 30% for rain beginning at 21Z. Confidence is too
low to include in the TAFs. The best chance for precipitation is
in northeast Nebraska. Any precipitation will be non-severe and 
light.


&&

.OAX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
NE...None.
IA...None.
&&

$$

DISCUSSION...Mead
AVIATION...Fajman
