206 
FXUS63 KOAX 260436
AFDOAX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Omaha/Valley NE
1136 PM CDT Tue Oct 25 2022

...Updated Aviation Forecast Discussion...

.DISCUSSION...
Issued at 350 PM CDT Tue Oct 25 2022

Mild conditions and sunny skies prevail across the area today with
the trof just east of here losing its influence on the mid-
Missouri River Valley as the southern mid-level vort max streaks
northeast, rounding the dominant/deeper low just north of 
Minnesota. Temps are seasonable and will remain that way through 
the forecast period. 

Winds, breezy at times today, will slow and turn variable
overnight with the passing of the high pressure axis pushing
through the area. Temps will slip towards the low end of guidance.
I've pushed numbers closer to the 25th percentile of ensemble
guidance as a result. HREF probabilities suggest no fog 
development, but it has cropped up the last couple of nights and 
seems possible in low lying parts of western Iowa overnight... 
especially where the rain fell yesterday. Have added "patchy" fog 
to the grids there. Confidence in its development is low. 

Wednesday brings southerly return flow developing from west to 
east. With prevalent sunshine and widespread drought conditions, 
have bumped up highs toward 75th percentile.

Have added slight POPs for Wednesday afternoon and evening with
the approach of a lee trof on the plains of Colorado. Frontogenesis
at 700hPa is forecast. Southerly flow remains quick overnight as 
an LLJ develops.

Best chances of precip wait for the development of southwesterly
flow ahead of the deepening trof mid-day on Thursday. PWAT values
will be above normal, but still shy of 1". The max precip possible
has slipped with subsequent model runs this week, capping the 
reasonable high end amount. Latest QPF forecast from WPC is 
justifiable and suggests a few hundredths in western Iowa to near
a quarter of an inch in the northwestern corner of the CWA. 
Beggars can't be choosers. Under the cloud cover, highs may 
struggle to hit 60F.

The usual cadre of deterministic models show that mid-level low 
meandering south, cut off from the primary flow along the 
US/Canada border. It'll take it's rainfall with it. Stuck between
the trof and the primary flow up north, we'll be dry and 
relatively quiet with highs close to seasonal norms - autumnal 
temps! Activities over the Halloween weekend should be 
unencumbered by the weather. 

&&

.AVIATION...(For the 06Z TAFS through 06Z Wednesday night)
Issued at 1127 PM CDT Tue Oct 25 2022

VFR criteria to prevail for the TAF period. There are a few 
potential impacts to aviation. There is a low probability for fog 
in southwest Iowa and along the Missouri River. Skies are clear 
and the wind speeds are fairly calm. This time of year those 
conditions can lead to fog. However, dew points are a few degrees 
too low. Higher dew points do exist in the aforementioned areas so
patchy fog is possible in those locations.

Winds will shift tomorrow from the north to the south beginning
around 15Z. Sustained winds are expected to remain under 10 kts. 

There is a 20 to 30% for rain beginning at 21Z. Confidence is too
low to include in the TAFs. The best chance for precipitation is
in northeast Nebraska. Any precipitation will be non-severe and 
light.

&&

.OAX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
NE...None.
IA...None.
&&

$$

DISCUSSION...Nicolaisen
AVIATION...Fajman
