973 
FXUS63 KOAX 262035
AFDOAX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Omaha/Valley NE
335 PM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

...Updated Forecast Discussion...

.DISCUSSION...
Issued at 334 PM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

.Today and Tomorrow:

Water vapor imagery this afternoon continues to feature the 
departing shortwave over the eastern CONUS while a deepening wave 
continues to move southeast across the Rockies. Drilling down to the 
local area, scattered to broken mid and high clouds waft over the 
area with a band of light rain beginning to move into southeast 
Nebraska associated with increased warm air advection and a weak 
shortwave. This activity is expected to continue slowly moving to 
the northeast along with increasing light rain coverage moving in 
from central Nebraska. While the radar echoes look like they cover a 
decent area, much of the precipitation is evaporating below the 
cloud bases ranging from 7,000 to 10,000 ft. By sunrise tomorrow 
morning, WAA advection and overall lift is expected to be greater 
and will result in rain chances for much of central Nebraska 
eastward to a line from Beatrice to Onawa. Most areas are expected
to receive less than 0.1" of rain but a few spots closer to KOFK 
could see as high as 0.3" by the time everything winds down 
tomorrow evening.

.Friday through Monday:

Friday through Monday will feature a rock-steady period of very 
pleasant 60-degree days with dry weather expected. Halloween goers 
will be able to rest easy knowing that a generally benign, zonal 
flow will in the mid-upper levels while a cutoff that will have 
swung south and east of the area (missing us completely) begins 
dissipating Monday evening. 

.Tuesday and Wednesday:

By Tuesday, model guidance begins diverging as the zonal patter from 
the weekend begins breaking down due the the amplification of a 
shortwave trough beings over the Pacific Northwest. The main feature 
that differs between the deterministic field is the handling of a
shortwave south of the main jet streak Tuesday and how deep the 
shortwave trough ends up being by Wednesday. This period deserves 
some attention, as a deterministic GFS-based forecast (not a great
bet to make) would result in a rather deep system moving into the
forecast area Thu/Fri that could make some impacts locally. Due 
to the uncertainty, we're holding off on getting too excited until
models begin to agree.

&&

.AVIATION...(For the 18Z TAFS through 18Z Thursday afternoon)
Issued at 1219 PM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

VFR conditions are expected to persist through the period, with
the main concern being very low-end rain chances this
afternoon/evening and better chances for light rain tomorrow
morning. Winds will continue out of the southeast increasing in
speed around sunrise tomorrow morning to include southeasterly gusts
to 20 kts. Most of the light rain footprint is expected to drift
northwest of KLNK and KOMA while KOFK is expected to see it for
much of the morning. 


&&

.OAX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
NE...None.
IA...None.
&&

$$

DISCUSSION...Petersen
AVIATION...Petersen
