416 
FXUS63 KOAX 262301
AFDOAX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Omaha/Valley NE
601 PM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

...Updated Aviation Forecast Discussion...

.DISCUSSION...
Issued at 334 PM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

.Today and Tomorrow:

Water vapor imagery this afternoon continues to feature the 
departing shortwave over the eastern CONUS while a deepening wave 
continues to move southeast across the Rockies. Drilling down to the 
local area, scattered to broken mid and high clouds waft over the 
area with a band of light rain beginning to move into southeast 
Nebraska associated with increased warm air advection and a weak 
shortwave. This activity is expected to continue slowly moving to 
the northeast along with increasing light rain coverage moving in 
from central Nebraska. While the radar echoes look like they cover a 
decent area, much of the precipitation is evaporating below the 
cloud bases ranging from 7,000 to 10,000 ft. By sunrise tomorrow 
morning, WAA advection and overall lift is expected to be greater 
and will result in rain chances for much of central Nebraska 
eastward to a line from Beatrice to Onawa. Most areas are expected
to receive less than 0.1" of rain but a few spots closer to KOFK 
could see as high as 0.3" by the time everything winds down 
tomorrow evening.

.Friday through Monday:

Friday through Monday will feature a rock-steady period of very 
pleasant 60-degree days with dry weather expected. Halloween goers 
will be able to rest easy knowing that a generally benign, zonal 
flow will in the mid-upper levels while a cutoff that will have 
swung south and east of the area (missing us completely) begins 
dissipating Monday evening. 

.Tuesday and Wednesday:

By Tuesday, model guidance begins diverging as the zonal patter from 
the weekend begins breaking down due the the amplification of a 
shortwave trough beings over the Pacific Northwest. The main feature 
that differs between the deterministic field is the handling of a
shortwave south of the main jet streak Tuesday and how deep the 
shortwave trough ends up being by Wednesday. This period deserves 
some attention, as a deterministic GFS-based forecast (not a great
bet to make) would result in a rather deep system moving into the
forecast area Thu/Fri that could make some impacts locally. Due 
to the uncertainty, we're holding off on getting too excited until
models begin to agree.

&&

.AVIATION...(For the 00Z TAFS through 00Z Thursday evening)
Issued at 554 PM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

VFR conditions will prevail through tonight. By early Thursday
morning. a warm front lifting through eastern NE will be the
focus for possible -SHRA activity. As of now, it appears that axis
for most favorable development will cross though northeast NE,
thus affecting KOFK for potential MVFR/-SHRA during the day.
Cannot rule out and activity at KOMA or KLNK so am inclined to at
least include PROB30 group for both. 

&&

.OAX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
NE...None.
IA...None.
&&

$$

DISCUSSION...Petersen
AVIATION...DEE
