391 
FXUS63 KIWX 260737
AFDIWX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Northern Indiana
337 AM EDT Wed Oct 26 2022

.SYNOPSIS...
Issued at 335 AM EDT Wed Oct 26 2022

Rain showers with blustery north to northwest winds up to 25 to 35 
mph at times will gradually taper off through the day. Temperatures 
will remain fairly steady or fall slightly through the day, with 
most locations in the mid to upper 40s and low 50s by the afternoon. 
Dry conditions will prevail through late morning on Halloween. Rain 
is most likely after 8 pm EDT, but there are chances during the 
afternoon hours on Sunday. Rain will continue through Tuesday 
morning before dry conditions return by the middle of next week. 
Highs will be in the 50s and low 60s. Lows will be in the 30s and 
low to mid 40s.

&&

.SHORT TERM...(Today and Tonight)
Issued at 335 AM EDT Wed Oct 26 2022

A cut off upper level low will be absorbed into the energy of the 
broader trough digging into MN/WI at this time. The exiting low is 
forecast to be centered over eastern Lake Erie/Western Ontario by 5 
pm tonight, leaving our forecast area under zonal/slightly ridged 
flow aloft for the remainder of the short term. 

At the surface we have an occluded low that contains a secondary 
cold front/trough that moves from west to east across the area 
area through early afternoon. This is associated with the the 
broader surface low that will continue moving E-NE into Lower 
MI/Lake Erie. The entire system will exit the area by mid-late 
afternoon, allowing for a large surface high to build into the 
Great Lakes overnight. By 8 am EDT Thursday, the high should be 
centered over our CWA and extending to north of Lake Superior. 

Thanks to the high rapidly impinging on the area in the wake of our 
low, we'll have a decent pressure gradient through the day 
(especially this morning) where stronger wind gusts of 30-35 mph may 
mix down to the surface. The gale warning on Lake Michigan is in 
effect through late morning, with a small craft advisory expected to 
follow that. Rain showers should diminish by early afternoon, 
especially in the west. The NAM does indicate that there could be an 
uptick in shower activity east of I 69 along that secondary front 
this afternoon before it exits the area, but other models move the 
trough/front through much quicker and move all precipitation out by 
19-20z. Temperatures will either remain somewhat steady or fall 
through the day, with highs in the mid-upper 50s this morning 
dropping into the upper 40s and low 50s by this afternoon.  

Dry conditions will prevail tonight under calm winds and partly to 
mostly clear skies thanks to high pressure building in. Radiational 
cooling and incoming colder air mass will drop low temperatures into 
the low to mid 30s range (upper 30s near Lake MI). 

&&

.LONG TERM...(Thursday through Tuesday)
Issued at 335 AM EDT Wed Oct 26 2022

Surface high pressure and zonal flow/strengthening ridge aloft will 
linger from Thursday into Sunday morning, keeping dry conditions in 
place. Highs will be in the 50s and low 60s Thursday and Friday, 
then rise into the low to mid 60s for Saturday. Lows will be in the 
30s and eventually by Saturday night low to mid 40s.

The next system to bring us chances for rain will arrive at some 
point Sunday afternoon (Halloween) and exit by around Tuesday 
afternoon. Models are coming into better agreement compared to 
yesterday with regards to the overall synoptic pattern and broader 
timing, which boosts our confidence a little. There is a closed low 
aloft that lifts from the south and Central Plains Saturday morning 
into Missouri by Sunday afternoon around 2 pm EDT, weakening as it 
lifts north into IL/IA/WI by 2 am EDT Monday night. This will bring 
a weak surface low (or perhaps a trough if it weakens enough) 
through our forecast area. We will see if the system is strong 
enough to break down the amplified ridge aloft over our CWA, which 
expands out of broad high pressure over the Atlantic. 

The main difference as far as timing goes will be the start time. 
Solutions still bounce between around 2 pm EDT and 8 pm EDT Sunday 
for a start time across our southern CWA, then lifting precipitation 
north from there. Suspect this is due to varying strength of the 
low and the ridge in place over our area earlier on. The GFS still
wants to linger precipitation through Tuesday morning, whereas 
the ECMWF ends things by late Monday night. Opted to keep close to
the consensus pops, although I did slow them down a bit to 
account for the aforementioned timing issues. Kept Tuesday dry, 
with the best potential Sunday night (after 8 pm) into Monday 
morning. Chances continue into Monday night, which is when I have 
the least confidence for given continued timing issues 
(exiting).P-type will be all rain given highs in the upper 50s and
low to mid 60s, and lows in the 40s and low 50s. 

Tuesday into Wednesday evening will be dry as surface high pressure 
builds back into the region under an amplifying ridge aloft. High 
temperatures will be in the 60s. Lows will be in the 40s.

&&

.AVIATION...(For the 06Z TAFS through 06Z Wednesday Night)
Issued at 1230 AM EDT Wed Oct 26 2022

Surface low near KLAF associated with robust mid level cyclone
near KHUF. System to continue northeast track, quickly swept out
through Lake Huron by midday as northern stream shortwave sweeps
through northern portion of Upper Great Lakes. This should allow 
for acceleration of spiraled rainbands, with an area of more 
pronounced/persistent deformation across northeast Illinois/ 
northwest Indiana early this morning, to the northeast and clear 
northern Indiana through the morning hours. Stronger, veered low 
level flow within lagged moist boundary layer should foster 
deterioration/expansion of lower end MVFR/tempo IFR stratus across
northern Indiana, especially at KSBN per upstream northern 
Illinois observations and additive lake enhancement. Gradual 
mixout into higher end MVFR by midday as drier subcloud air 
overspreads. Transition to VFR by evening as low level flow 
transitions to anticyclonic and subsident surface ridge spreads 
east towards northern Indiana. 


&&

.IWX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
IN...NONE.
MI...NONE.
OH...NONE.
LM...Gale Warning until noon EDT today for LMZ043-046.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...MCD
SHORT TERM...MCD
LONG TERM...MCD
AVIATION...Murphy


Visit us at www.weather.gov/iwx

Follow us on Facebook...Twitter...and YouTube at:
www.facebook.com/NWSNorthernIndiana
www.twitter.com/nwsiwx
www.youtube.com/NWSNorthernIndiana
