760 
FXUS63 KIWX 261900
AFDIWX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Northern Indiana
300 PM EDT Wed Oct 26 2022

.SYNOPSIS...
Issued at 253 PM EDT Wed Oct 26 2022

Dry weather conditions take over for the rest of the week into
Sunday. Temperatures remain normal to slightly below normal on
Thursday before adjusting towards either side of normal for 
Friday and the weekend. Rain moves in Sunday and it remains rainy
through Monday.

&&

.SHORT TERM...(This Evening through Thursday)
Issued at 253 PM EDT Wed Oct 26 2022

The shortwave associated with this morning's rain pushes away from 
the area during the afternoon. Behind the shortwave, drier air moves 
into the region in conjunction with the arrival of surface high 
pressure and slight mid level ridging. Additionally, a 30 kt low 
level jet associated with the pressure gradient and mixing up to 
around 850 mb allows for gusty winds up to around 30 mph into the 
afternoon before the gradient and mixing relaxes by late afternoon.

While the low level temperatures stay above freezing, the lows 
tonight will have the potential to dip down into the low 30s as 
winds relax. Some lake enhanced cloudiness may linger a couple 
counties away from Lake Michigan into tonight, which may provide a 
little bit of a floor for low temperatures there.

Cooler temperatures on easterly wind trajectories will be across the 
area on Thursday as highs are only able to rise up into the low to 
mid 50s, which is just below normal by around 5 years. Surface high 
pressure will be overhead allowing for dry weather. Areas away from 
Lake Michigan will likely see plenty of sunshine, especially to 
start the day. Meanwhile, an upper low level pressure system dives 
southeast into the Southern Plains, but the jet structure is such 
that it will help push some moisture in the form of cloud cover into 
areas southwest of US-30 by mid to late afternoon.

&&

.LONG TERM...(Thursday Night through Wednesday)
Issued at 253 PM EDT Wed Oct 26 2022

Friday starts our long term section with one upper jet to the
north and another our south as surface high pressure slips out to
our east. This set up allows for warming return flow on the 
western side of the high pressure system and a return to normal or
perhaps slightly above normal temperatures for Friday through 
Sunday. Even as the surface high pressure system slips off to the 
east, mid level ridging remains and this provides a dry period of 
weather from this afternoon through much of Sunday. 

By Sunday, the aforementioned upper level low pressure system 
approaches the area. There still remains some uncertainty with how 
quickly this system will be able to approach the area on Sunday as 
is often the case with cut-off systems arriving from the 
Southwestern US. Then, a second shortwave arrives from the Pacific 
and this catches up with the slowly departing and lumbering low 
pressure system later Sunday, which may extend the time period of 
light rainfall into Monday. Temperatures during this time period 
stay right around normal. 

&&

.AVIATION...(For the 18Z TAFS through 18Z Thursday Afternoon)
Issued at 1250 PM EDT Wed Oct 26 2022

MVFR cigs and gusty northwest winds will continue this afternoon
behind low pressure. Winds will then quickly diminish this evening
as high pressure nudges in from the west...with cigs eventually 
scattering out otherwise tonight. 


&&

.IWX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
IN...NONE.
MI...NONE.
OH...NONE.
LM...Small Craft Advisory until 11 PM EDT this evening for LMZ043-046.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...Roller
SHORT TERM...Roller
LONG TERM...Roller
AVIATION...Steinwedel


Visit us at www.weather.gov/iwx

Follow us on Facebook...Twitter...and YouTube at:
www.facebook.com/NWSNorthernIndiana
www.twitter.com/nwsiwx
www.youtube.com/NWSNorthernIndiana
