800 
FXUS63 KIWX 260500
AFDIWX

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Northern Indiana
100 AM EDT Wed Oct 26 2022

.SYNOPSIS...
Issued at 840 PM EDT Tue Oct 25 2022

Rain showers continue overnight, followed by blustery north to 
northwest winds, into Wednesday as a low pressure system lifts 
through northern Indiana. Dry conditions will return on Wednesday
and persist into the weekend. Cooler, and more seasonal temperatures
can also be expected in the wake of this weather system, with 
daytime temperatures dropping back into the 50s.

&&

.SHORT TERM...(This Evening through Wednesday)
Issued at 230 PM EDT Tue Oct 25 2022

The area remains in the warm sector this afternoon due to 
southerly flow ahead of a low pressure system currently centered 
over southeast Missouri. This low is forecast to move up through 
Illinois and into northern Indiana by late this evening. Rain 
showers are already moving in from the west and will continue to 
progress eastward as well. Can't rule out a few rumbles of thunder as
the low grows closer, but don't have very much confidence. 
Surface instability will be waning down to only a couple hundred 
Joules and bulk wind shear will be marginal at around 25-30 kts. 
The best chances for thunder will be south of US 30. There is 
greater certainty that moderate rain can be expected, especially 
across the west as dewpoints continue to increase along with the 
warm air advection. Rainfall amounts are expected to range from 
over an inch in the far northwest to around a quarter of an inch 
in northwest Ohio, although locally higher amounts are possible.

The upper low will move into Ohio on Wednesday morning, and
showers will taper off during the afternoon. However, a tight 
surface pressure gradient and cold air advection behind the low 
will result in gusty north to northwest winds up to 35 to 40 mph. 

&&

.LONG TERM...(Wednesday Night through Tuesday)
Issued at 230 PM EDT Tue Oct 25 2022

Winds will shift to the northeast and diminish Wednesday night as
weak ridging builds back across the area. Dry conditions will 
also return, though it will remain seasonably cool through the end
of the week with highs in the 50s and lows in the 30s. The ridge 
axis will strengthen over the region on Saturday and temperatures
will warm slightly into the 60s. A low moving up from Texas will
then bring a chance of rain on Sunday into Monday, and possibly 
Tuesday, but model discrepancies lead to uncertainty as to whether
this will actually pan out or not. 

&&

.AVIATION...(For the 06Z TAFS through 06Z Wednesday Night)
Issued at 1230 AM EDT Wed Oct 26 2022

Surface low near KLAF associated with robust mid level cyclone
near KHUF. System to continue northeast track, quickly swept out
through Lake Huron by midday as northern stream shortwave sweeps
through northern portion of Upper Great Lakes. This should allow 
for acceleration of spiraled rainbands, with an area of more 
pronounced/persistent deformation across northeast Illinois/ 
northwest Indiana early this morning, to the northeast and clear 
northern Indiana through the morning hours. Stronger, veered low 
level flow within lagged moist boundary layer should foster 
deterioration/expansion of lower end MVFR/tempo IFR stratus across
northern Indiana, especially at KSBN per upstream northern 
Illinois observations and additive lake enhancement. Gradual 
mixout into higher end MVFR by midday as drier subcloud air 
overspreads. Transition to VFR by evening as low level flow 
transitions to anticyclonic and subsident surface ridge spreads 
east towards northern Indiana. 

&&

.IWX WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
IN...NONE.
MI...NONE.
OH...NONE.
LM...Gale Warning from 5 AM early this morning to noon EDT today for 
     LMZ043-046.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...Andersen
SHORT TERM...Cobb
LONG TERM...Cobb
AVIATION...Murphy


Visit us at www.weather.gov/iwx

Follow us on Facebook...Twitter...and YouTube at:
www.facebook.com/NWSNorthernIndiana
www.twitter.com/nwsiwx
www.youtube.com/NWSNorthernIndiana
