749 
FXUS61 KBUF 260512
AFDBUF

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Buffalo NY
112 AM EDT Wed Oct 26 2022

.SYNOPSIS...
Very warm and dry weather will continue through Wednesday morning 
across the region. Low pressure will then move from the Ohio Valley 
to southern Ontario Wednesday afternoon and evening, with a trailing 
cold front crossing the area Wednesday night. These features will 
produce a couple rounds of showers before the rain ends by Thursday 
morning, with another extended stretch of dry weather lasting 
through next weekend.

&&

.NEAR TERM /THROUGH TODAY/...
Tonight a continued SSErly flow will keep the plume of low level 
Atlantic moisture flowing into the western Southern Tier and 
portions of the Finger Lakes along with eastern Lake Ontario region 
where some low stratus can once again be expected overnight. Flow 
becomes less SSE later tonight, so stratus may contract some. Other 
than some mid and high cloud elsewhere, expect another dry night 
with even milder overnight lows mainly ranging through the 50s. 
SSEerly downslope flow may produce some wind gusts up to 25-30mph 
west of the Chautauqua Ridge along the Lake Erie shore in Chautauqua 
County.

Our beautiful stretch of warm and dry weather will then come to an 
end on Wednesday. An area of low pressure will bring a round of 
showers to our area as the system tracks just to our west and 
northwest from Michiana Wednesday morning into southern Ontario 
Wednesday afternoon, then pulls away into southern Quebec by 
Wednesday evening. Dry weather should start off the day across the 
region with a few showers getting into southwestern NYS around mid 
morning, then into areas from the Genesee Valley west by midday. The 
eastern half of our area should remain mostly dry through at least 
mid afternoon before the first chance for any rain arrives there. 
Otherwise the most persistent showers will be across areas from the 
Genesee Valley westward closer to the area of low pressure. Hence 
the highest QPF amounts will also be found over areas west of the 
Genesee Valley where 0.10"-0.25" of rainfall is forecast, with less 
than a tenth of an inch from the Finger Lakes eastward. Expect more 
of a range of temperatures with some upper 60s and low 70s from the 
Finger Lakes east where it remains dry for a good portion of the 
day, with upper 50s and a range of 60s across western NY under the 
clouds and precip.

&&

.SHORT TERM /TONIGHT THROUGH FRIDAY/...
Showers will diminish Wednesday night following the passage of a 
cold front and trough axis. 850mb temps will only drop to around +2C 
Wednesday night, which may not be cold enough to produce any true 
lake effect with lake temperatures around +14C. However, deeper 
moisture with the mid-level trough and upsloping will support some 
lingering showers with some limited lake enhancement. After the 
deeper moisture pulls away, cloud tops will not be cool enough to 
support dendritic snow growth, so precipitation will either end or 
taper off to drizzle late Wednesday night. Cold air advection will 
drop temperatures into the 40s by daybreak Thursday.

Expansive high pressure will build across the Great Lakes region 
Thursday and Thursday night before moving east across New England 
late Friday. This will provide fair weather during the period. 
Lake/upslope enhanced cloud cover will linger into Thursday, but 
skies should clear out nicely Thursday afternoon. Mainly clear skies 
Thursday night, then there will be limited clouds with a developing 
mid-level front on Friday. 

During this time, temperatures will return to near normal with highs 
on Thursday and Friday averaging in the lower 50s and lows in the 
30s Thursday night.

&&

.LONG TERM /FRIDAY NIGHT THROUGH TUESDAY/...
An expansive area of high pressure will be centered over the eastern 
Great Lakes region Friday night. This will likely lead to a chilly 
night with temperatures falling into the 30s across most of the 
region. The surface high will slowly track eastward through the 
weekend. The weather will be dry and calm through at least Sunday.

A shortwave trough will approach from the Mid-West Sunday night and 
into the next work week. There remains uncertainty if an area of low 
pressure or surface trough will move near the region but chances for 
rain showers increase Sunday night and last through Tuesday. There 
are no signals for a widespread rain however periods of showers are 
possible during this time. 

Besides Friday night, temperatures will average slightly above 
normal for the weekend into next work week.

&&

.AVIATION /05Z WEDNESDAY THROUGH SUNDAY/...
Some low stratus will continue through early this morning across the 
Tug Hill region and near KELZ with MVFR CIGS. Otherwise VFR will 
prevail through this morning with mid/high clouds thickening and 
lowering from west to east.

A strong mid level trough and cold front will cross the region this 
afternoon and evening, supporting a period of showers. The rain will 
arrive in Western NY early to mid afternoon, then spread northeast 
to the eastern Lake Ontario region by early this evening. The 
showers along the cold front will end quickly from west to east 
tonight. There may be a brief window of lake effect sprinkles and 
light showers southeast of Lake Erie and Lake Ontario overnight, but 
this will be short lived as a very dry airmass quickly moves in by 
early Thursday morning. CIGS will deteriorate to MVFR after the rain 
begins, with MVFR CIGS lingering through tonight following the cold 
frontal passage. A brief period of IFR CIGS is likely across higher 
terrain for a few hours this evening.

It will turn quite windy late this afternoon and evening along and 
behind the cold front, with gusts of 30+ knots east and northeast of 
Lake Erie and Lake Ontario.

Outlook... 
 
Thursday through Sunday...VFR.

&&

.MARINE...
Relatively light and generally offshore southeast winds will 
continue on Lake Erie and Lake Ontario through Wednesday. A cold 
front will then cross the eastern Great Lakes Wednesday evening, and 
low pressure will then quickly deepen Wednesday night as it moves 
north through Quebec. The combination of the two will bring rapidly 
increasing winds Wednesday night, with high end Small Craft Advisory 
conditions on both lakes. Sustained winds on Lake Ontario may 
briefly reach or exceed 30 knots late Wednesday night. Winds will 
become northwest and gradually diminish Thursday.

&&

.BUF WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
NY...None.
MARINE...None.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...Hitchcock/JM
NEAR TERM...JLA/JM
SHORT TERM...Apffel
LONG TERM...HSK
AVIATION...Hitchcock
MARINE...Hitchcock
