969 
FXUS61 KBUF 261754
AFDBUF

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Buffalo NY
154 PM EDT Wed Oct 26 2022

.SYNOPSIS...
Low pressure will move across southern Ontario this afternoon 
and evening, with a trailing cold front crossing the area. This 
system will produce a period of showers through tonight before 
the rain ends by Thursday morning. This cold front will bring a
much cooler and more seasonable airmass to the region Thursday 
through the weekend along with another extended period of dry 
weather.

&&

.NEAR TERM /THROUGH THURSDAY/...
A trough at the surface and aloft will move across the area this
afternoon, and this feature will drive an area of showers which
will move across the area this afternoon into early evening. At
1 p.m. the leading edge of rain showers was between Buffalo and
Rochester with these expected to reach the Genesee Valley mid- 
afternoon and Watertown and the Eastern Lake Ontario region late
this afternoon and early evening. However there are also some 
light rain showers out ahead of this along the nose of a low- 
level jet across the Eastern Lake Ontario region. The steadiest 
rain will be across far Western New York where the trough will 
be strongest, with rainfall amounts around a quarter inch.

Otherwise, temperatures will depend on the arrival time of the
rain, with pleasantly warm readings in the 70s across the lake
plains east of Lake Ontario, while far western New York will be
stuck in the upper 50s. 

A cold front will move across the area late this afternoon into
early evening, resulting in a period of windy conditions. 
Expect wind gusts of 30- 40 mph along and just behind the cold 
front in these areas, and 20- 30 mph elsewhere.

The most widespread rain will end quickly from west to east this 
evening with the passage of the cold front. There will be a brief 
window of upslope/lake effect showers tonight as cold air deepens 
and marginal wrap around moisture remains in place. This will bring 
another period of showers to the higher terrain east of Lake Erie 
(Chautauqua Ridge/Boston Hills) and the Tug Hill region east of Lake 
Ontario. The airmass quickly dries out, so expect the lake response 
southeast of the lakes to quickly weaken later tonight. 

Lake effect clouds will persist for a few hours Thursday morning in 
a northwest flow regime. There may still be a few light lake effect 
showers near Rochester early from a Georgian Bay connection, but 
this will quickly end as the very dry synoptic scale airmass becomes 
too hostile for lake effect. Otherwise, the lake effect clouds will 
give way to clearing in the afternoon. A much cooler airmass will 
keep highs in the low 50s in most areas, upper 40s higher terrain.

&&

.SHORT TERM /THURSDAY NIGHT THROUGH SATURDAY NIGHT/...
An expansive +1030mb sfc high to our west will build east passing by 
just to our north Thursday night. It will then settle just to our 
east providing quiet and fair weather through the weekend. The main 
challenge this period will be overnight lows (MinT's) Thursday night 
and again Friday night. Its 'likely' that a light northerly flow 
will persist Thursday night before winds go calm by Friday morning. 
Furthermore...guidance suggests that there may be some high clouds 
that will pass through the CWA Thursday night. That said...Thursday 
night might not be the colder of the two nights even though H850T's 
of +2C to +4C will be colder than Friday night. Either way...both 
nights will still be colder than earlier in the week. We will likely 
see many spots falling back into the 30s Thursday night and even 
some 20s in the coldest locations Friday night. Temperatures during 
the day Friday will be more in line with this time of year with 
highs in the 50s. 

Again fine fall weather expected Saturday with highs in the upper 
50s to low 60s, this after a chilly start to the day. 

Saturday night...the sfc high will begin to slowly drift east and 
off the Northeast coast by Sunday morning. No impact weather wise 
but southerly flow will develop on the western periphery of the sfc 
high as we head into Sunday. Overnight lows expected in the 30s.

&&

.LONG TERM /SUNDAY THROUGH TUESDAY/...
Sfc high pressure will exit off the Northeast coast on Sunday but 
continue to provide fair dry weather. As the sfc high exits, a mid-
level closed low will begin to lift northeast across the Mid-
Mississippi River valley. It will then begin to interact with a 
shortwave racing out of the Northern Plains. Moisture streaming 
northeast will bring chances for showers as we progress into the 
first part of the week.

&&

.AVIATION /18Z WEDNESDAY THROUGH MONDAY/...
A trough will move from west to east across the region,
producing a period of showers this afternoon into early evening. 
Cigs will lower to mainly MVFR shortly following the start of 
the rain, with periods of IFR due to low cigs and vsby 
restrictions. There also will be a cold frontal passage, with
cigs likely to lower a bit more following the wind shift. A
period of IFR is possible, especially across higher terrain
which is likely to include the KJHW terminal. There will also be
gusty winds with the frontal passage.

Cigs will gradually lift tonight, as westerly winds behind the
front bring in a drier air mass. Expect a mix of MVFR/VFR cigs
daybreak Thursday, with cigs lifting and scattering during the
day Thursday. Widespread VFR flight conditions expected after
18Z Thursday.

Outlook... 
 
Thursday night through Sunday...VFR.
Monday...Mainly MVFR with showers likely. 

&&

.MARINE...
A cold front will cross the eastern Great Lakes through this 
evening, and low pressure will then quickly deepen tonight as it
moves north through Quebec. The combination of the two will 
bring rapidly increasing winds this evening through the 
overnight, with high end Small Craft Advisory conditions on both
lakes. Sustained winds on Lake Ontario may briefly reach or 
exceed 30 knots for a few hours overnight. Winds will become 
northwest and gradually diminish Thursday.

&&

.BUF WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
NY...None.
MARINE...Small Craft Advisory until 2 AM EDT Thursday for LEZ020.
         Small Craft Advisory until 8 AM EDT Thursday for LEZ040-
         041.
         Small Craft Advisory from 7 PM this evening to 8 AM 
         EDT Thursday for LOZ042.
         Small Craft Advisory from 9 PM this evening to 2 PM EDT 
         Thursday for LOZ043-044.
         Small Craft Advisory from 9 PM this evening to 11 AM EDT 
         Thursday for LOZ045.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...Apffel/Hitchcock
NEAR TERM...Apffel/Hitchcock
SHORT TERM...AR
LONG TERM...AR
AVIATION...Apffel/Hitchcock
MARINE...Apffel/Hitchcock
