167 
FXUS61 KBUF 262201
AFDBUF

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Buffalo NY
601 PM EDT Wed Oct 26 2022

.SYNOPSIS...
Low pressure near the Ottawa Valley will track across Quebec 
tonight, with its trailing cold front crossing our area this 
evening. Showers will change to light rain/drizzle by late evening 
especially across higher terrain of WNY and the eastern Lake Ontario 
region. Rain will end by Thursday morning with clouds slowly 
clearing through the day. A cooler and more seasonable airmass will 
build into the region behind this front, resulting in another 
extended period of dry weather which will last through the weekend.

&&

.NEAR TERM /THROUGH THURSDAY/...
A trough at the surface and aloft will cross through this evening. 
Showers have become less organized and less widespread than earlier 
this afternoon. Next few hours will see showers mostly from northern 
Finger Lakes toward eastern Lake Ontario region. Expect the 
showers to continue to diminish though as sfc trough and mid-
upper trough lift across Quebec into the evening. Cold front is 
close by though with surge of southwest winds occurring just 
ahead of it. Gusty winds will sweep across western NY this 
evening with a few showers then winds turn west-northwest by 
late evening. Expect wind gusts of 30 - 40 mph along and just 
behind the cold front, and 20 - 30 mph elsewhere.

Most of the showers will end quickly from west to east this evening 
with the passage of the cold front. There will be a brief window of 
upslope/lake effect showers tonight as cold air deepens and marginal 
wrap around moisture remains in place. Inversions very low though as 
evidenced by widespread, yet minimally developed stratus and 
stratocu upstream over central Great Lakes. Expect mainly light 
rain/sprinkles/drizzle where the stratus intersects the higher 
terrain east of Lake Erie (Chautauqua Ridge/Boston Hills) and 
the Tug Hill region east of Lake Ontario. The airmass quickly 
dries out, so expect the lake response and any associated 
upslope rain/drizzle southeast of the lakes to quickly weaken 
later tonight. 

Lake effect/upslope clouds will persist Thursday morning in a 
northwest flow regime. There may still be a few light lake effect 
showers near Rochester early from a Georgian Bay connection, but 
this will quickly end as the very dry synoptic scale airmass becomes 
too hostile for lake effect. Otherwise, the lake effect clouds will 
give way to clearing in the afternoon. A much cooler airmass will 
keep highs in the low 50s in most areas, upper 40s higher terrain.

&&

.SHORT TERM /THURSDAY NIGHT THROUGH SATURDAY NIGHT/...
An expansive surface high pressure system averaging 1034mb will pass 
by to our north Thursday night before settling across New England 
through Saturday night. This will provide high confidence in an 
extended period with fair weather which will last through the 
weekend. There will be some areas of clouds Thursday night and 
Friday followed by mostly clear skies Friday night through Saturday 
night.

The main forecast challenge for this period will be overnight lows. 
In general the close proximity of the surface high will provide 
light winds resulting in good radiational cooling each night. The 
coolest air aloft will be Thursday night, but there will be some 
cloud cover and a modest 5 to 10 mph flow in spots which will limit 
radiational cooling some. In general, hedged forecast below model 
consensus for low temperatures, closer to the cooler MOS temperature 
guidance. Lows will range from the upper 20s to lower 30s Thursday 
and Friday nights, and then in the 30s Saturday night. High 
temperatures will be in the 50s Friday and in the upper 50s to lower 
60s on Saturday.

&&

.LONG TERM /SUNDAY THROUGH WEDNESDAY/...
Mid-level ridging and surface high pressure will slide off the 
Northeast coast Sunday, supporting one additional day of dry weather 
albeit with increasing cloud cover. Looking upstream, a progressive 
shortwave moving across the Northern Plains will interact with a 
closed low over the southern Mississippi River Valley, ultimately 
forming a broader open wave system. Northward moisture transport 
combined with height falls associated with this approaching trough 
will bring wet weather to wrap up the month of October. Shower 
chances will increase from southwest to northeast Sunday night, with 
precip then overspreading the region through the day Monday before 
slowly tapering off in coverage late Monday night through Tuesday. 
Broad high pressure will then build across the eastern CONUS, 
providing a return to dry weather through Wednesday.

Temperatures through the much of the forecast period area are 
expected run a few degrees above normal. Daytime temps will 
generally top out in the upper 50s and low 60s, with overnight lows 
in the mid and upper 40s.

&&

.AVIATION /22Z WEDNESDAY THROUGH MONDAY/...
Sfc trough and upper level trough lift across southern Quebec 
tonight. Cold front sweeps across western NY this evening and east 
of Lake Ontario late evening. Showers around early on, then these 
will change to lighter rain/sprinkles/drizzle late evening through 
the rest of the night, especially for higher terrain of WNY and east 
of Lake Ontario (eg. Tug Hill). Cigs mainly MVFR early this evening 
with local IFR (JHW) in wake of the front. Later tonight, lower 
elevations will trend toward low-end VFR while higher terrain 
remains MVFR.

Other issue will be gusty winds. Sfc winds may gust over 25 kts this 
evening WNY as the cold front crosses. Strongest winds at ROC and 
ART will be late evening through the overnight as winds shift to the 
northwest. Gusts then could also exceed 25 kts. Winds at all 
terminals diminish by daybreak on Thursday. Rest of Thursday will 
feature slow clearing of MVFR to low VFR stratus/strato cu. This 
cloud deck will mix out, but it may take until mid to late afternoon 
at JHW. Widespread VFR flight conditions late afternoon into 
Thursday night.

Outlook... 
 
Friday through Sunday...VFR.
Monday...Mainly MVFR.  Showers likely.

&&

.MARINE...
A cold front will cross the eastern Great Lakes this evening. Strong 
pressure rises behind the front as high pressure builds across the 
western Great Lakes will bring rapidly increasing winds this evening 
through the overnight as winds shift to the west-northwest, with 
high end Small Craft Advisory conditions on both lakes. Sustained 
winds on Lake Ontario may briefly reach or exceed 30 knots for a few 
hours overnight. Winds will become northwest and gradually diminish 
Thursday, though it will still remain quite choppy through the 
afternoon on Lake Ontario between Hamlin Beach and Mexico Bay.

&&

.BUF WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
NY...None.
MARINE...Small Craft Advisory until 2 AM EDT Thursday for LEZ020.
         Small Craft Advisory until 8 AM EDT Thursday for LEZ040-
         041.
         Small Craft Advisory until 8 AM EDT Thursday for 
         LOZ042.
         Small Craft Advisory from 9 PM this evening to 2 PM EDT 
         Thursday for LOZ043-044.
         Small Craft Advisory from 9 PM this evening to 11 AM EDT 
         Thursday for LOZ045.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...Apffel/Hitchcock/JLA
NEAR TERM...Apffel/JLA
SHORT TERM...AR/Apffel
LONG TERM...AR
AVIATION...JLA
MARINE...Apffel/Hitchcock/JLA
