730 
FXUS61 KBUF 261014
AFDBUF

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Buffalo NY
614 AM EDT Wed Oct 26 2022

.SYNOPSIS...
Low pressure will move from the Ohio Valley to southern Ontario this 
afternoon and evening, with a trailing cold front crossing the area. 
This system will produce a period of showers this afternoon and 
tonight before the rain ends by Thursday morning. The cold front 
will bring a much cooler and more seasonable airmass to the region 
Thursday through the weekend along with another extended period of 
dry weather.

&&

.NEAR TERM /THROUGH THURSDAY/...
A plume of Atlantic moisture will continue to produce some low 
stratus this morning across the Tug Hill region. Dense cirrus will 
begin to move into Western NY early this morning ahead of the next 
system. Meanwhile the Genesee Valley and Finger Lakes will see 
sunshine this morning before clouds increase from west to east. 
Southerly downslope winds will continue to produce 30-40 mph gusts 
locally to the lee of the Chautauqua Ridge along the Lake Erie shore 
this morning. These downslope winds will settle down once the rain 
arrives late this morning.

Our long stretch of warm and dry weather will come to an end later 
today as a sharp mid level trough moves from the Ohio Valley into 
the eastern Great Lakes. At the surface, an elongated area of low 
pressure will move from Lower Michigan this morning to western 
Quebec by this evening, with a trailing cold front entering Western 
NY late this afternoon and sweeping east across the rest of the area 
this evening. DPVA and height falls will spread into the area from 
west to east today ahead of the trough, along with a narrow axis of 
deep moisture just ahead of the cold front. 

Expect an area of showers to enter Chautauqua County by late 
morning, then spread northeast across the remainder of Western NY 
during the early to mid afternoon before reaching the eastern Lake 
Ontario region late this afternoon and evening. The best coverage 
and greatest rainfall totals will likely be across Western NY where 
forcing and moisture maximize, with lower rainfall amounts and 
lesser rain coverage from the Genesee Valley to eastern Lake Ontario 
region.

Temperatures will still be warm today, especially from the Genesee 
Valley east with a later onset of thicker clouds and rain. Expect 
highs in the low to mid 70s again for lower elevations there. Across 
Western NY, expect upper 60s for lower elevations and lower 60s for 
higher terrain.

The most widespread rain will end quickly from west to east this 
evening with the passage of the cold front. There will be a brief 
window of upslope/lake effect showers tonight as cold air deepens 
and marginal wrap around moisture remains in place. This will bring 
another period of showers to the higher terrain east of Lake Erie 
(Chautauqua Ridge/Boston Hills) and the Tug Hill region east of Lake 
Ontario. The airmass quickly dries out, so expect the lake response 
southeast of the lakes to quickly weaken later tonight. 

It will turn quite windy east/northeast of Lake Erie late this 
afternoon, and tonight east of Lake Ontario. Expect wind gusts of 30-
40 mph along and just behind the cold front in these areas, and 20-
30 mph elsewhere.

Lake effect clouds will persist for a few hours Thursday morning in 
a northwest flow regime. There may still be a few light lake effect 
showers near Rochester early from a Georgian Bay connection, but 
this will quickly end as the very dry synoptic scale airmass becomes 
too hostile for lake effect. Otherwise, the lake effect clouds will 
give way to clearing in the afternoon. A much cooler airmass will 
keep highs in the low 50s in most areas, upper 40s higher terrain.

&&

.SHORT TERM /THURSDAY NIGHT THROUGH SATURDAY NIGHT/...
An expansive +1030mb sfc high to our west will build east passing by 
just to our north Thursday night. It will then settle just to our 
east providing quiet and fair weather through the weekend. The main 
challenge this period will be overnight lows (MinT's) Thursday night 
and again Friday night. Its 'likely' that a light northerly flow 
will persist Thursday night before winds go calm by Friday morning. 
Furthermore...guidance suggests that there may be some high clouds 
that will pass through the CWA Thursday night. That said...Thursday 
night might not be the colder of the two nights even though H850T's 
of +2C to +4C will be colder than Friday night. Either way...both 
nights will still be colder than earlier in the week. We will likely 
see many spots falling back into the 30s Thursday night and even 
some 20s in the coldest locations Friday night. Temperatures during 
the day Friday will be more in line with this time of year with 
highs in the 50s. 

Again fine fall weather expected Saturday with highs in the upper 
50s to low 60s, this after a chilly start to the day. 

Saturday night...the sfc high will begin to slowly drift east and 
off the Northeast coast by Sunday morning. No impact weather wise 
but southerly flow will develop on the western periphery of the sfc 
high as we head into Sunday. Overnight lows expected in the 30s.

&&

.LONG TERM /SUNDAY THROUGH TUESDAY/...
Sfc high pressure will exit off the Northeast coast on Sunday but 
continue to provide fair dry weather. As the sfc high exits, a mid-
level closed low will begin to lift northeast across the Mid-
Mississippi River valley. It will then begin to interact with a 
shortwave racing out of the Northern Plains. Moisture streaming 
northeast will bring chances for showers as we progress into the 
first part of the week.

&&

.AVIATION /10Z WEDNESDAY THROUGH SUNDAY/...
Some low stratus will continue through early this morning across the 
Tug Hill region with MVFR CIGS. Otherwise VFR will prevail through 
midday with mid/high clouds thickening and lowering from west to 
east. Local southerly downslope winds will continue along the Lake 
Erie shore this morning near KDKK with gusts of 30-35 knots.

A strong mid level trough and cold front will cross the region this 
afternoon and evening, supporting a period of showers. The rain will 
arrive in Western NY early to mid afternoon, then spread northeast 
to the eastern Lake Ontario region by early this evening. The 
showers along the cold front will end quickly from west to east 
tonight. There may be a brief window of lake effect sprinkles and 
light showers southeast of Lake Erie and Lake Ontario overnight, but 
this will be short lived as a very dry airmass quickly moves in by 
early Thursday morning. CIGS will deteriorate to MVFR after the rain 
begins, with MVFR CIGS lingering through tonight following the cold 
frontal passage. A brief period of IFR CIGS is likely across higher 
terrain for a few hours this evening.

It will turn quite windy late this afternoon and evening along and 
behind the cold front, with gusts of 30+ knots east and northeast of 
Lake Erie and Lake Ontario.

Outlook... 
 
Thursday through Sunday...VFR.

&&

.MARINE...
A cold front will cross the eastern Great Lakes late this afternoon 
and this evening, and low pressure will then quickly deepen tonight 
as it moves north through Quebec. The combination of the two will 
bring rapidly increasing winds this evening through the overnight, 
with high end Small Craft Advisory conditions on both lakes. 
Sustained winds on Lake Ontario may briefly reach or exceed 30 knots 
for a few hours overnight. Winds will become northwest and gradually 
diminish Thursday.

&&

.BUF WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
NY...None.
MARINE...Small Craft Advisory from 4 PM this afternoon to 2 AM EDT 
         Thursday for LEZ020.
         Small Craft Advisory from 4 PM this afternoon to 8 AM EDT 
         Thursday for LEZ040-041.
         Small Craft Advisory from 7 PM this evening to 8 AM 
         EDT Thursday for LOZ042.
         Small Craft Advisory from 9 PM this evening to 2 PM EDT 
         Thursday for LOZ043-044.
         Small Craft Advisory from 9 PM this evening to 11 AM EDT 
         Thursday for LOZ045.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...Hitchcock
NEAR TERM...Hitchcock
SHORT TERM...AR
LONG TERM...AR
AVIATION...Hitchcock
MARINE...Hitchcock
