404 
FXUS61 KBUF 261843
AFDBUF

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Buffalo NY
243 PM EDT Wed Oct 26 2022

.SYNOPSIS...
Low pressure will track across Quebec tonight, with its 
trailing cold front crossing the area through this evening. 
This system will produce a period of showers through tonight 
before the rain ends by Thursday morning. A cooler and more 
seasonable airmass will build into the region behind this front,
resulting in another extended period of dry weather which will 
last through the weekend.

&&

.NEAR TERM /THROUGH THURSDAY/...
A trough at the surface and aloft will move across the area this
afternoon, and this feature will drive an area of showers which
will move across the area this afternoon into early evening. At 2 
p.m. the leading edge of rain showers was near Rochester and the 
Genesee Valley with these showers expected to reach Watertown and 
the Eastern Lake Ontario region late this afternoon and early 
evening. The steadiest rain will be across far Western New York 
where the trough will be strongest, with rainfall amounts around a 
quarter inch.

Otherwise, temperatures will depend on the arrival time of the
rain, with pleasantly warm readings in the 70s across the lake 
plains east of Lake Ontario this afternoon, while far western New 
York will be stuck in the upper 50s. 

An associated cold front will also move across the area late this 
afternoon into early evening, resulting in a period of windy 
conditions. Expect wind gusts of 30 - 40 mph along and just behind 
the cold front in these areas, and 20 - 30 mph elsewhere.

The most widespread rain will end quickly from west to east this 
evening with the passage of the cold front. There will be a brief 
window of upslope/lake effect showers tonight as cold air deepens 
and marginal wrap around moisture remains in place. This will bring 
another period of showers to the higher terrain east of Lake Erie 
(Chautauqua Ridge/Boston Hills) and the Tug Hill region east of Lake 
Ontario. The airmass quickly dries out, so expect the lake response 
southeast of the lakes to quickly weaken later tonight. 

Lake effect clouds will persist for a few hours Thursday morning in 
a northwest flow regime. There may still be a few light lake effect 
showers near Rochester early from a Georgian Bay connection, but 
this will quickly end as the very dry synoptic scale airmass becomes 
too hostile for lake effect. Otherwise, the lake effect clouds will 
give way to clearing in the afternoon. A much cooler airmass will 
keep highs in the low 50s in most areas, upper 40s higher terrain.

&&

.SHORT TERM /THURSDAY NIGHT THROUGH SATURDAY NIGHT/...
An expansive surface high pressure system averaging 1034mb will pass 
by to our north Thursday night before settling across New England 
through Saturday night. This will provide high confidence in an 
extended period with fair weather which will last through the 
weekend. There will be some areas of clouds Thursday night and 
Friday followed by mostly clear skies Friday night through Saturday 
night.

The main forecast challenge for this period will be overnight lows. 
In general the close proximity of the surface high will provide 
light winds resulting in good radiational cooling each night. The 
coolest air aloft will be Thursday night, but there will be some 
cloud cover and a modest 5 to 10 mph flow in spots which will limit 
radiational cooling some. In general, hedged forecast below model 
consensus for low temperatures, closer to the cooler MOS temperature 
guidance. Lows will range from the upper 20s to lower 30s Thursday 
and Friday nights, and then in the 30s Saturday night. High 
temperatures will be in the 50s Friday and in the upper 50s to lower 
60s on Saturday.

&&

.LONG TERM /SUNDAY THROUGH WEDNESDAY/...
Mid-level ridging and surface high pressure will slide off the 
Northeast coast Sunday, supporting one additional day of dry weather 
albeit with increasing cloud cover. Looking upstream, a progressive 
shortwave moving across the Northern Plains will interact with a 
closed low over the southern Mississippi River Valley, ultimately 
forming a broader open wave system. Northward moisture transport 
combined with height falls associated with this approaching trough 
will bring wet weather to wrap up the month of October. Shower 
chances will increase from southwest to northeast Sunday night, with 
precip then overspreading the region through the day Monday before 
slowly tapering off in coverage late Monday night through Tuesday. 
Broad high pressure will then build across the eastern CONUS, 
providing a return to dry weather through Wednesday.

Temperatures through the much of the forecast period area are 
expected run a few degrees above normal. Daytime temps will 
generally top out in the upper 50s and low 60s, with overnight lows 
in the mid and upper 40s.

&&

.AVIATION /19Z WEDNESDAY THROUGH MONDAY/...
A trough will move from west to east across the region,
producing a period of showers this afternoon into early evening. 
Cigs will lower to mainly MVFR shortly following the start of 
the rain, with periods of IFR due to low cigs and vsby 
restrictions. There also will be a cold frontal passage, with
cigs likely to lower a bit more following the wind shift. A
period of IFR is possible, especially across higher terrain
which is likely to include the KJHW terminal. There will also be
gusty winds with the frontal passage.

Cigs will gradually lift tonight, as westerly winds behind the
front bring in a drier air mass. Expect a mix of MVFR/VFR cigs
daybreak Thursday, with cigs lifting and scattering during the
day Thursday. Widespread VFR flight conditions expected after
18Z Thursday.

Outlook... 
 
Thursday night through Sunday...VFR.
Monday...Mainly MVFR.  Showers likely.

&&

.MARINE...
A cold front will cross the eastern Great Lakes through this 
evening, and low pressure will then quickly deepen tonight as it
moves north through Quebec. The combination of the two will 
bring rapidly increasing winds this evening through the 
overnight, with high end Small Craft Advisory conditions on both
lakes. Sustained winds on Lake Ontario may briefly reach or 
exceed 30 knots for a few hours overnight. Winds will become 
northwest and gradually diminish Thursday.

&&

.BUF WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
NY...None.
MARINE...Small Craft Advisory until 2 AM EDT Thursday for LEZ020.
         Small Craft Advisory until 8 AM EDT Thursday for LEZ040-
         041.
         Small Craft Advisory from 7 PM this evening to 8 AM 
         EDT Thursday for LOZ042.
         Small Craft Advisory from 9 PM this evening to 2 PM EDT 
         Thursday for LOZ043-044.
         Small Craft Advisory from 9 PM this evening to 11 AM EDT 
         Thursday for LOZ045.

&&

$$

SYNOPSIS...Apffel/Hitchcock
NEAR TERM...Apffel/Hitchcock
SHORT TERM...AR/Apffel
LONG TERM...AR
AVIATION...Apffel
MARINE...Apffel/Hitchcock
