296 
FXUS65 KVEF 260354
AFDVEF

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Las Vegas NV
855 PM PDT Tue Oct 25 2022

.SYNOPSIS...Increasing temperatures expected until a weather system 
passes through the Desert Southwest Wednesday night into Thursday 
morning, reducing temperatures slightly and increasing northerly 
winds along the Colorado River Valley. Warming trend picks back up 
going into the weekend, bringing us back toward seasonal normals.
&&

.UPDATE...A swath of mid and high clouds was enhancing over central 
Nevada ahead of a shortwave trough currently digging into the 
Pacific Northwest. These clouds will brush over southern Nevada late 
tonight then clear out for Wednesday morning before another batch of 
clouds enhances Wednesday afternoon across our region before the 
trough dives across northern Nevada and Utah Wednesday night. This 
will bring increasing north breezes down through southern Nevada 
mainly after 10 PM PDT Wednesday evening through the day 
Thursday...with the strongest speeds down the Colorado River Valley 
where a Lake Wind Advisory is in effect from 3 AM to 5 PM PDT 
Thursday. The latest model guidance supports trends detailed in the 
previous discussion and no immediate changes are needed. -Adair &&

.PREV DISCUSSION...
156 PM PDT Tue Oct 25 2022


.SHORT TERM...Today through Thursday.

With a northwesterly-to-zonal flow aloft, temperatures have been 
allowed to increase somewhat today compared to yesterday. 
Temperatures will increase yet again Wednesday afternoon, but will 
still remain below seasonal averages. Quiet weather with mostly 
clear skies expected both today and Wednesday.

That said, a shortwave trough will drop through the western CONUS 
Wednesday night into Thursday morning. The trough axis is not 
expected to push into our forecast area, but an additional shortwave 
trough embedded in the flow aloft will sink into the Desert 
Southwest, which will assist in tightening gradients overhead. In 
general, precipitation chances will remain north of our forecast 
area where the center of the low pressure passes through the 
southern Great Basin. That said, snow levels in the panhandle of 
Lincoln County will drop below 3000 feet. Both the ECMWF ensemble 
mean and GEFS mean continue to hint at light snow accumulations 
across the northern fringes of our forecast area Thursday morning, 
so cannot rule out flurries or light snow in the higher elevations 
of northern Lincoln or central Nye counties as the system passes to 
our north.  

Otherwise, the primary impact will be enhanced northerly winds along 
the Colorado River Valley. As mentioned in the previous forecast 
discussion, the NBMv4.1 continues to indicate stronger wind gusts 
than the NBMv4.0. Confidence has increased in sustained wind speeds 
in excess of 25 mph this afternoon, which has resulted in our 
issuance of the Lake Wind Advisory. This advisory is in effect for 
zones NV 021, AZ 002, 036, and CA 527 due to the constricting shape 
of our zones, but primary impacts will be seen along the Colorado 
River Valley from Laughlin/Bullhead City south to Lake Havasu City. 
Though breezy winds are expected at Lake Mead, the primary concerns 
are for Lake Mohave and Lake Havasu, where gusty winds could result 
in wave heights between 1 and 2 feet, which would be dangerous for 
small craft. The Lake Wind Advisory starts early - at 3 AM PDT due 
to the timing of the frontal passage and continues through the 
afternoon. 

As we get closer to the event, more high-resolution model data will 
be available, possibly increasing forecast wind speeds. Chose to 
hold off on a Wind Advisory issuance for the area and opt for a Lake 
Wind Advisory instead due to the small spatial and temporal area of 
our current thinking of wind gusts over 40 mph. In general, wind 
gusts will range from 25 to 35 mph, but cannot rule out an isolated 
gust in excess of 40 mph, particularly in and just south of 
Laughlin/Bullhead City.


.LONG TERM...Friday through Monday.

Fair weather looks to be in store at least early this weekend as 
model ensembles indicate a ridge of high pressure holding over our 
region Friday into Saturday resulting in temperatures climbing 
slightly each day with highs in the 70s across most of the desert 
zones. There is good agreement that the ridge will break down Sunday 
and Monday in response to a mean trough developing over the western 
states. Ensemble means and the majority of clusters indicate a 
rather benign positive tilt or neutral trough with only a slight 
decrease in temperatures by Halloween. This trend is reflected in
the latest NBM forecast grids with no significant weather or 
winds across the region except a slight chance of precipitation in
the high Sierra.
&&

.AVIATION...For Harry Reid...No operationally significant winds, 
clouds, or weather expected through Wednesday. A cold front will 
bring northerly winds Wednesday night into Thursday.

For the rest of southern Nevada, northwest Arizona and southeast
California...A cold front will traverse the southern Great Basin 
Wednesday and the Mojave Desert Wednesday night, bringing northerly 
winds gusting 20 to 30 knots in the favorably oriented terrain of 
the southern Great Basin Wednesday afternoon and evening and to the 
Colorado River Valley Wednesday night and Thursday. Lesser gusts are 
expected elsewhere. No operationally significant clouds or weather 
expected.
&&


.SPOTTER INFORMATION STATEMENT...Spotters are encouraged to report
any significant weather or impacts according to standard operating
procedures.
&&

$$

SHORT TERM...Varian
LONG TERM...Adair
AVIATION...Morgan

For more forecast information...see us on our webpage:
https://weather.gov/lasvegas or follow us on Facebook and Twitter
