081 
FXUS65 KVEF 262114
AFDVEF

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Las Vegas NV
214 PM PDT Wed Oct 26 2022

.SYNOPSIS...Increasing temperatures expected until a weather system 
passes through the southern Great Basin tonight into Thursday 
morning, reducing temperatures slightly and increasing northerly 
winds along the Colorado River Valley. Warming trend returns going 
into the weekend, bringing us back toward seasonal normals.
&&


.SHORT TERM...Today through Friday.

Minimal changes to the forecast. A shortwave trough is going to drop 
down from the Pacific Northwest through the southern Great Basin 
tonight, pushing through Arizona and New Mexico Thursday morning. In 
general, this system is going to skirt by our northern zones with 
minimal impact. However, as the system quickly deepens to our east, 
the pressure gradient will tighten west-to-east over our area... a 
pattern that is conducive for strong northerly wind gusts along the 
Colorado River Valley, aided by localized topographic enhancement. 
As such, synoptic models tend to undergo these wind events, so we
lean more on high-resolution models in these cases. That said, 
our high-resolution models continue to run hot in this particular 
event, pointing to sustained wind speeds over 40 mph possible 
along the Colorado River Valley from Lake Mohave to Lake Havasu, 
with negligible changes between the 00Z and the 12Z HREF 
(mentioned as being particularly hot in the previous forecast 
discussion). The pressure nor temperature gradient seems to be 
strong enough to warrant these speeds, with the NBMv4.1 showing 
more reasonable values. 

Opted to do a blend of NamNest12Z, a local 7.5km model, and NBMv4.1 
for the sustained wind speed grids this afternoon. As such, the Lake 
Wind Advisory looks to be in good shape. Though gusts over 40 mph 
are possible, they will be very localized from the Katherine Landing 
/ Laughlin/Bullhead City area to Needles. That's not to say that an 
isolated gust to 40 mph isn't possible elsewhere along the CRV, but 
that aforementioned area would be the most likely location of 
persistent 40+ mph winds. 

Northwest gusts will pick up across the forecast area overnight 
tonight as the front passes through the region, generally between 15 
and 25 mph. Advisory-level gusts will start along the CRV around 
4AM. Gusts will continue through the morning, but will decrease 
through the afternoon. A brief dip in temperatures expected Thursday 
morning, putting our slow crawl back up to seasonal averages on 
pause. Temperatures will continue their gradual increase Friday as 
ridging sets up behind the trough.

.LONG TERM...Saturday through next Wednesday.

Ridging will set up behind the exiting trough, increasing 
temperatures back up to seasonal normals through the weekend. Both 
the ECMWF ensemble mean and GEFS mean are hinting at a shortwave 
trough passing along the upper-level trough on Saturday. In general, 
this will have minimal impacts to our forecast area, but as it 
passes through the region, increased northerly winds will be 
possible along the Colorado River Valley Saturday and Sunday 
afternoons. Otherwise, clear to mostly clear skies expected for 
Halloween with light winds and seasonal temperatures. 

The extended forecast gets more interesting, with ensembles 
indicating the approach of a digging trough / closed low Wednesday 
and Thursday. There remains a lot to be resolved at this time, so 
confidence of impacts is low at this time.
&&


.AVIATION...For Harry Reid...Light east to southeast winds to 
persist through the afternoon. A cold front will make its way 
southward this evening into tonight, resulting in a west then 
northwest to north wind shift. Sustained winds will increase behind 
the front with sustained winds 15 knots or less and a few gusts to 
around 20 knots. Winds to remain northerly, becoming northeasterly 
by 18z Thursday. Scattered mid/high clouds to accompany the front.

For the rest of southern Nevada, northwest Arizona and southeast
California...A cold front will make its way across the region this 
evening and overnight, resulting in a northerly wind shift at all 
terminals by 10z Thursday. Sustained winds to generally remain 15 
knots or less with gusts to 20-25 knots from the north/northwest 
behind the front. KIFP looks to have the greatest wind potential 
with gusts to near 30 knots from 10z on. Winds to remain elevated 
through the end of the TAF period, remaining mostly northerly to 
northeasterly.
&&


.SPOTTER INFORMATION STATEMENT...Spotters are encouraged to report
any significant weather or impacts according to standard operating
procedures.
&&

$$

DISCUSSION...Varian
AVIATION...Austin

For more forecast information...see us on our webpage:
https://weather.gov/lasvegas or follow us on Facebook and Twitter
