636 
FXUS65 KVEF 261702
AFDVEF

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Las Vegas NV
1002 AM PDT Wed Oct 26 2022

.SYNOPSIS...Increasing temperatures expected until a weather system 
passes through the region Wednesday night into Thursday morning, 
pushing a cold front through the area, reducing temperatures 
slightly and increasing northerly winds along the Colorado River 
Valley. Warming trend picks back up going into the weekend, bringing 
us back toward seasonal normals.
&&


.UPDATE...Another afternoon of below-average temperatures in store 
for the region today, albeit warmer than yesterday. Quiet conditions 
expected through the day today until a weather system passes through 
the southern Great Basin tonight into Thursday morning. Northerly 
winds will increase across the region as that happens, with peak 
winds expected along the Colorado River Valley. A Lake Wind Advisory 
remains in effect from 3AM to 5PM Thursday for Lake Mohave and Lake 
Havasu due to wave heights between 1 and 3 feet possible. No changes 
were made to the forecast this morning, as it looks to be in good 
shape.
&&


.PREVIOUS DISCUSSION...230 AM PDT Wed Oct 26 2022/

.SHORT TERM...Today and Tomorrow.

Not much change in the forecast from the last few discussions.
Still expecting one more generally quiet day today across the
region before a system passes by to the northeast. With the
trajectory of this low, the typical pre-frontal surface pressure 
drops that lead to windy conditions like we saw last weekend, will 
not be as strong, nor positioned ideally. That being said, this 
system is strong and cold enough to push a cold front down through 
the state Wednesday night and shift winds to the north which will 
enhance northerly winds down the Colorado River Valley. 

A Lake Wind Advisory was issued yesterday for Thursday and that
still looks like a safe bet per the latest wind guidance. NBMv4.1
as noted on the previous couple discussions is notably stronger
than its 4.0 counterpart, especially in the KIFP area. Further,
the 4.1 guidance is lower than some of the 00Z HREF members for 
winds down the CRV as well. Due to the aforementioned trajectory 
of the low, it is a bit unclear why these HREF members are 
suggesting 50+ mph gusts. Even the temperature gradient is 
generally pretty meager as well and GEFS/EC membership suggests 
much lower winds (albeit much coarser resolution for the terrain 
effects of the CRV). So there still exists some uncertainty here
on how strong the winds will actually get, but feel the v4.1 is a
fair solution given the synoptic setup and terrain effects.
However, as the range of variance between solutions is still quite
high, an upgrade to / an expansion of a Wind Advisory may be needed. 

.LONG TERM...Friday through Wednesday.

Mild weather looks likely across our region over the weekend and 
early next week as the latest model ensembles now indicate an 
amplified ridge migrating overhead Friday followed by fairly weak 
zonal flow Saturday through Monday. This will result in temperatures 
rebounding to near normal by Saturday and holding fairly steady 
until Tuesday with highs in the mid to upper 70s across most of the 
desert zones and 80s along the lower Colorado River Valley and Death 
Valley. Tuesday may see increasing southwest winds as the leading 
edge of a long wave trough originating from the Gulf of Alaska 
begins to dive toward the western states. Model ensembles are 
indicating the potential of this leading to a significant pattern 
change with cooler, windy and unsettled weather Wednesday through 
the second half of the week.
&&


.AVIATION...For Harry Reid...Light and variable winds this morning 
will give way to easterly winds of 10kts or less by early afternoon. 
A cold front will move through the Vegas Valley this evening between 
03Z and 05Z, with winds shifting north after the frontal passage. 
Sustained winds should remain below 15kts behind the front, although 
a few gusts to 20kts will be possible.  Scattered high clouds will 
move across the area today but should not result in any operational 
impacts. 

For the rest of southern Nevada, northwest Arizona and southeast 
California...A frontal system moving south across the great basin 
will bring northerly winds in its wake from late this afternoon into 
tonight.  Vegas areas TAF sites should see a shift between 03Z and 
05Z, while the Colorado River sites will see the direction change 
after 08Z.  The strongest winds are expected at KIFP, where gusts 
over 25kts will be possible around daybreak Thursday morning.  Winds 
with northerly components are expected through the entire period at 
KBIH, with the strongest winds occurring after 20Z.  KDAG will see 
mainly southwesterly winds through the TAF period.  No operationally 
significant clouds cover is expected at all sites through Thursday 
morning.
&&


.SPOTTER INFORMATION STATEMENT...Spotters are encouraged to report
any significant weather or impacts according to standard operating
procedures.
&&

$$

SHORT TERM...TB3
LONG TERM...Adair
AVIATION...Planz

For more forecast information...see us on our webpage:
https://weather.gov/lasvegas or follow us on Facebook and Twitter
