064 
FXUS61 KALY 262344
AFDALY

AREA FORECAST DISCUSSION
National Weather Service Albany NY
744 PM EDT Wed Oct 26 2022

.SYNOPSIS...
A cold front will move across the region this evening. With 
its passage a drier and more seasonable airmass will be ushered 
in. A large area of high pressure will then build in across the 
region with fair weather expected into the weekend.

&&

.NEAR TERM /UNTIL 6 AM THURSDAY MORNING/...
UPDATE...As of 635 PM EDT, band of showers/sprinkles continues
tracking east across the Mohawk Valley, SW Adirondacks and
eastern Catskills. A few embedded heavier showers have developed
across southwest Herkimer County, where latest SPC Mesoanalysis
depicts a pocket of 100-250 J/kg SB CAPE. So, a few brief heavy
downpours with wind gusts up to 30 mph are possible, with some 
wind gusts up to 25 mph possible even with the lighter showers, 
as low level lapse rates are 6-6.5 C/km, and DCAPES are 400-700 
J/kg across portions of the upper Hudson Valley.

Initial cold front was entering far northern Herkimer County,
with secondary (main) cold front still back near Toronto
extending into NE Ohio. This second front will cross the region
from west to east after midnight, bringing gusty winds and
falling temps in its wake closer to daybreak.

In between both fronts, there could be a period of clearing
later this evening through the early morning hours within valley
areas, as subsidence develops in the wake of potent shortwave
tracking through this evening. Lower clouds should then increase
once again as the second front approaches/passes through. Some
wind gusts could reach up to 30-35 mph in the wake of the second
front around daybreak, especially within the Mohawk Valley,
Capital Region and Berkshires.

PREVIOUS [348 PM EDT]...Sunny zone from the Hudson Valley into 
western New England shifting east as clouds and scattered 
showers track from central NY toward our region. The clouds and 
showers will affect eastern NY this evening and western New 
England later this evening. The rain will exit before midnight 
but some clouds will linger through much of the night as the 
cold front and wind shift track through. Cold advection will 
take place as gusty north west winds spread across our region. 

Lows by daybreak in the mid 40s to around 50 and around 40
higher terrain.

&&

.SHORT TERM /6 AM THURSDAY MORNING THROUGH SATURDAY/...
Gusty north to northwest winds Thursday with cold advection and
increasing sunshine. Highs in the upper 50s to lower 60s with
around 50 to lower 50s higher terrain.

Winds diminish Thursday night and with a clear sky and strong
low level ridging building in from Canada, temperatures should 
fall to near freezing or below freezing in most areas. Some
periods of high clouds Friday, otherwise, light north winds and
filtered sun. Highs Friday around 50to mid 50s. 

Strong low level ridging still building into our region from
Canada Friday night into Saturday with light winds and a clear
sky. Temperatures should drop below freezing in most areas with
20s in many areas by early Saturday morning. 

Sunny with light winds Saturday and weak warm advection begins
Saturday afternoon. Highs in the mid 50s to around 60.

&&

.LONG TERM /SATURDAY NIGHT THROUGH WEDNESDAY/...
Mainly fair weather with high pressure in control for Sunday, after 
a chilly start (lows in the 20s north, lower/mid 30s south and 
east), with highs mainly in the upper 50s to lower 60s by Sunday.

Uncertainty increases for Sunday night into Tuesday regarding the 
timing and ultimate track of southern stream energy and an 
associated low pressure system. Mean ensemble solutions suggest 
gradually increasing PoPs from southwest to northeast Sunday night, 
with best chances for showers or a period of steady rain Monday into 
Monday night. Showers could linger into Tuesday, and perhaps as late 
as Wed morning for areas from Albany south and east.

Temperatures should average above seasonal levels, with highs mainly 
in the 50s to lower 60s Monday, (although could be cooler if 
widespread rain occurs), and lower/mid 60s in valley areas and 55-60 
higher elevations Tue/Wed, with overnight lows mainly in the 40s to 
lower 50s.

&&

.AVIATION /00Z THURSDAY THROUGH MONDAY/...
Through 00z/Fri...Light rain showers will push across portions
of the region over the next couple hours, mainly affecting 
KALB/KGFL. Otherwise, VFR ceilings are expected to start the TAF
period. There is a chance for brief MVFR cigs and/or vsbys at 
KGFL if a heavier shower moves across the terminal so maintained
a tempo for this possibility.

As a secondary boundary moves through overnight, low clouds will 
return with bases in the 2000-3000 ft range, resulting in the 
return to MVFR conditions. Coverage may remain more SCT at KPOU 
so kept VFR conditions there. Clouds will lift and dissipate 
Thursday morning with a nearly clear sky expected by the 
afternoon.

Wind will shift to the west to southwest this evening at 6-12
kt, then increase overnight out of the west to northwest at 
10-15 kt with gusts to around 25 kt. Wind will shift more north 
to northwesterly on Thursday at similar speeds.

Outlook...

Thursday Night: No Operational Impact. NO SIG WX.
Friday: No Operational Impact. NO SIG WX.
Friday Night: No Operational Impact. NO SIG WX.
Saturday: No Operational Impact. NO SIG WX.
Saturday Night: No Operational Impact. NO SIG WX.
Sunday: No Operational Impact. NO SIG WX.
Sunday Night: Moderate Operational Impact. Chance of SHRA.
Monday: High Operational Impact. Likely SHRA.

&&

.ALY WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
MA...None.
VT...None.

&&

$$
SYNOPSIS...NAS
NEAR TERM...KL/NAS
SHORT TERM...NAS
LONG TERM...KL
AVIATION...Rathbun
