220 
FXUS61 KALY 260149
AFDALY

AREA FORECAST DISCUSSION
National Weather Service Albany NY
949 PM EDT Tue Oct 25 2022

.SYNOPSIS...
It will remain mild and muggy into tonight with a few 
passing rain showers and some patchy fog. Temperatures will
remain mild into Wednesday, although an approaching cold front 
will allow for some showers, especially by late in the day. 
Behind the cold front, dry weather is expected for Thursday into
the weekend, as an area of high pressure builds into the area, 
with temperatures near or slightly above normal.

&&

.NEAR TERM /UNTIL 6 AM WEDNESDAY MORNING/...
UPDATE...As of 940 PM EDT, breaks in the clouds continue
immediately east of the Hudson River, with mainly cloudy skies
elsewhere. Isolated showers/patchy drizzle continues across 
portions of the eastern Catskills extending north into the
Adirondacks, with additional isolated showers/patches of 
drizzle approaching northeast Litchfield County and the
southern Berkshires from the east/southeast.

Increasing low level convergence develops after midnight from 
east to west, allowing for a potential uptick in shower coverage
across western New England, especially toward daybreak, when a 
few heavier embedded downpours may occur within a band of 
showers stretching from southern VT south through the Berkshires
and into Litchfield County, CT. Will have to watch how far west
these showers expand, as they could reach as far west as 
portions of the Hudson River Valley after sunrise.

Temperatures will remain elevated overnight, with min temps
(around daybreak) generally in the upper 50s to lower 60s. 
Combined with dewpoints of similar values, it will actually feel
a bit muggy, especially for late October.

[PREVIOUS 342 PM EDT]...Strong upper level ridging is located 
over the western Atlantic and is nosing back westward towards 
New England. Meanwhile, a strong upper level shortwave is 
lifting northeast across the Mississippi Valley.

At the surface, high pressure is centered close to eastern New
England. A weak surface trough is located off the mid Atlantic
coast, while a developing area of low pressure is located well
offshore to the north of Bermuda.  

With the high pressure off to the east near the New England
seacoast, a persistent onshore flow has been in place over the 
last few days, and this flow has been aided by the weak coastal 
front/surface trough. Satellite imagery continue to show 
widespread clouds over the area and the moist, marine air 
allowed for widespread fog, low clouds, mist and drizzle early 
today.   Satellite imagery continues to show fairly widespread 
clouds over much of eastern New York and western New England,
although some downsloping thanks to the easterly flow is
starting to allow for some breaks to the west of the Taconics,
Greens and Berkshires, as well as across parts of the western
Mohawk Valley and western Adirondacks. Overall, skies are
generally varying from overcast to mostly cloudy across the bulk
of the area and this will continue through the evening hours.

This evening will start off dry with the ridging in place and
high pressure nearby. However, the low pressure area offshore 
will be lifting northward through the overnight, as the high 
pressure departs to the northeast. This system is pretty far
east of the area and the bulk of the impacts will be across New
England. However, model guidance suggests a band of showers on
the western side of this system could lift across southern New
England and approach our parts of western New England and far
eastern New York by the late night hours. Any showers look
fairly light and brief, but eastern parts of the area certainly
could be seeing some wet weather towards the end of the
overnight. 

Temperatures and dewpoints have both been running very high for
late October, with values of both well into the 60s. With the
onshore flow continuing into tonight, it will be another very
mild night with lows in the upper 50s to low 60s. The high
dewpoints will allow for the development of some more low
clouds, fog and mist for the late night hours as well.

&&

.SHORT TERM /6 AM WEDNESDAY MORNING THROUGH THURSDAY NIGHT/...
A few showers will still be impacting eastern areas on Wednesday
morning as low pressure lifts northward to the east of Cape Cod.
Otherwise, skies will be mostly cloudy to start the day on
Wednesday, but some breaks in the clouds are possible by the
late morning or afternoon hours as we get into a lull between
systems. With the mild start to the day and warm temps aloft, it
will be another day of above normal temps with highs well into
the 60s to near 70.  

The next system will be approaching for late in the day and into
Wednesday night, as the strong shortwave to the west lifts
across the Ohio Valley and Great Lakes. The bulk of the
showers with this system will remain west of the area, but best
chance will be along/ahead of the storm's cold front for
Wednesday evening and into the first part of Wed night, mainly
for northern and western parts of the area. Cooler air will
finally return to the area on Wednesday night as drier air works
into the region and some breaks in the clouds occur. Lows will
be back into the 40s and 50s.

On Thursday into Thursday night, dry weather is expected as high
pressure over the Great Lakes extends into the area. With the
cooler and drier air moving in, some gusty northwest winds are
expected within daytime mixing in the afternoon hours. Temps
will be cooler than the last few days, but still seasonable and
comfortable in the mid 50s to mid 60s. Mostly clear and
seasonably chilly temps are expected on Thursday night with
diminishing winds and lows in the 30s.

&&

.LONG TERM /FRIDAY THROUGH TUESDAY/...
Mainly fair weather with high pressure influencing the region
Friday through at least Sunday, with chilly nights (lows in the
20s north, lower/mid 30s south and east), and highs mainly in 
the 50s, perhaps some lower 60s by Sunday.

Uncertainty increases for Sunday night into Tuesday regarding
the timing and ultimate track of southern stream energy and an 
associated low pressure system. Mean ensemble solutions suggest 
gradually increasing PoPs from southwest to northeast late 
Sunday night into Monday, with best chances for showers or a 
period of steady rain Tuesday.

Temperatures should average near or a bit above seasonal levels
for Monday-Tuesday, with highs mainly in the 50s to lower 60s 
(although could be cooler if widespread rain occurs), and 
overnight lows mainly in the 40s to lower 50s.

&&

.AVIATION /02Z WEDNESDAY THROUGH SUNDAY/...
Through 00z/Thu...Flight categories have returned to the
VFR/MVFR range early this evening, but are expected to trend 
back into the IFR/MVFR range tonight and through much of 
tomorrow due to the redevelopment of low clouds and/or mist. 
Some LIFR periods cannot be ruled out by either ceilings or 
visibilities, but there was not enough confidence on locations 
or timing to include in this update. Next best chance for 
showers will be late tonight into tomorrow afternoon from the 
Hudson Valley and points east. Included -SHRA for KPSF and just 
VCSH for KALB/KGFL/KPOU for now. Some heavier periods of rain 
could be possible. Shower chances will decrease later Wednesday 
afternoon, though ceilings may struggle to rise much if at all.

Wind will be light or out of the southeast at 3-6 kt through
much of the TAF period.

Outlook...

Wednesday Night: Moderate Operational Impact. Chance of SHRA.
Thursday: No Operational Impact. NO SIG WX.
Thursday Night: No Operational Impact. NO SIG WX.
Friday: No Operational Impact. NO SIG WX.
Friday Night: No Operational Impact. NO SIG WX.
Saturday: No Operational Impact. NO SIG WX.
Saturday Night: No Operational Impact. NO SIG WX.
Sunday: No Operational Impact. NO SIG WX.

&&

.ALY WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
MA...None.
VT...None.

&&

$$
SYNOPSIS...Frugis
NEAR TERM...Frugis/KL
SHORT TERM...Frugis
LONG TERM...KL
AVIATION...Rathbun
