737 
FXUS61 KALY 261948
AFDALY

AREA FORECAST DISCUSSION
National Weather Service Albany NY
348 PM EDT Wed Oct 26 2022

.SYNOPSIS...
A cold front will move across the region this evening. With 
its passage a drier and more seasonable airmass will be ushered 
in. A large area of high pressure will then build in across the 
region with fair weather expected into the weekend.

&&

.NEAR TERM /UNTIL 6 AM THURSDAY MORNING/...
Sunny zone from the Hudson Valley into western New England
shifting east as clouds and scattered showers track from central
NY toward our region. The clouds and showers will affect eastern
NY this evening and western New England later this evening. The
rain will exit before midnight but some clouds will linger
through much of the night as the cold front and wind shift track
through. Cold advection will take place as gusty north west
winds spread across our region. 

Lows by daybreak in the mid 40s to around 50 and around 40
higher terrain.

&&

.SHORT TERM /6 AM THURSDAY MORNING THROUGH SATURDAY/...
Gusty north to northwest winds Thursday with cold advection and
increasing sunshine. Highs in the upper 50s to lower 60s with
around 50 to lower 50s higher terrain.

Winds diminish Thursday night and with a clear sky and strong
low level ridging building in from Canada, temperatures should 
fall to near freezing or below freezing in most areas. Some
periods of high clouds Friday, otherwise, light north winds and
filtered sun. Highs Friday around 50to mid 50s. 

Strong low level ridging still building into our region from
Canada Friday night into Saturday with light winds and a clear
sky. Temperatures should drop below freezing in most areas with
20s in many areas by early Saturday morning. 

Sunny with light winds Saturday and weak warm advection begins
Saturday afternoon. Highs in the mid 50s to around 60.

&&

.LONG TERM /SATURDAY NIGHT THROUGH WEDNESDAY/...
Mainly fair weather with high pressure in control for Sunday, after 
a chilly start (lows in the 20s north, lower/mid 30s south and 
east), with highs mainly in the upper 50s to lower 60s by Sunday.

Uncertainty increases for Sunday night into Tuesday regarding the 
timing and ultimate track of southern stream energy and an 
associated low pressure system. Mean ensemble solutions suggest 
gradually increasing PoPs from southwest to northeast Sunday night, 
with best chances for showers or a period of steady rain Monday into 
Monday night. Showers could linger into Tuesday, and perhaps as late 
as Wed morning for areas from Albany south and east.

Temperatures should average above seasonal levels, with highs mainly 
in the 50s to lower 60s Monday, (although could be cooler if 
widespread rain occurs), and lower/mid 60s in valley areas and 55-60 
higher elevations Tue/Wed, with overnight lows mainly in the 40s to 
lower 50s.

&&

.AVIATION /20Z WEDNESDAY THROUGH MONDAY/...
Through 18z Thursday....KALB/KGFL/KPOU are currently 
experiencing VFR conditions while lowered ceilings have yielded 
an MVFR category at KPSF. VFR/MVFR categories are expected to 
prevail throughout the TAF period with borderline ceilings and 
the chance for showers tonight. Light, southwesterly winds will 
prevail overnight before a cold front will shift winds out of 
the northwest. 

A TEMPO group has been added to the TAFs to account for the
chance of showers between 23z and 2z. Models indicate that KGFL
could experience the longest duration of showers, stretching
through that entire 3 hour period, while KALB/KPOU/KPSF look to
have a bit of a later start and only lasting an hour or two.
During this time, visibilities will likely be restricted and
ceilings will drop into the MVFR category. It is unlikely that
any terminal will drop into a category lower than MVFR. After 
the showers cease, winds will begin to shift as a result of an 
incoming cold front. Ceilings will gradually lift throughout the
morning tomorrow until skies become mostly clear to clear. 
Winds will be gusty tomorrow, especially at KALB, ranging from 
10-13kt sustained and gust of 16-23 kt.

Outlook...

Thursday Night: No Operational Impact. NO SIG WX.
Friday: No Operational Impact. NO SIG WX.
Friday Night: No Operational Impact. NO SIG WX.
Saturday: No Operational Impact. NO SIG WX.
Saturday Night: No Operational Impact. NO SIG WX.
Sunday: No Operational Impact. NO SIG WX.
Sunday Night: Moderate Operational Impact. Chance of SHRA.
Monday: High Operational Impact. Likely SHRA.

&&

.ALY WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
MA...None.
VT...None.

&&

$$
SYNOPSIS...NAS
NEAR TERM...NAS
SHORT TERM...NAS
LONG TERM...KL
AVIATION...Gant
