654 
FXUS61 KALY 261704
AFDALY

AREA FORECAST DISCUSSION
National Weather Service Albany NY
104 PM EDT Wed Oct 26 2022

.SYNOPSIS...
Another mild and muggy day with chances for showers especially 
east of the Hudson River Valley. A cold front will move across 
the region this afternoon and evening. With its passage a drier 
and more seasonable airmass will be ushered in. A large area of 
high pressure will then build in across the region with fair 
weather expected into the weekend.

&&

.NEAR TERM /UNTIL 6 PM THIS EVENING/...
Considerable breaks in the clouds and temperatures are climbing
solidly into the 70s with some 60s in higher terrain. Showers
are breaking up in western NY as they approach but there should
be enough low level forcing along the leading edge of cooling 
and drying to support scattered showers over most of our region 
late this afternoon and evening.

Southeasterly flow will become more southerly as the cold front
gets closer and moves in to the region.

&&

.SHORT TERM /6 PM THIS EVENING THROUGH FRIDAY/...
The cold front will move off to our east across New England this
evening as the weakening short wave trough passes over the
region. Chances for showers will finally come to an end and a
new airmass will be ushered in; drier and more seasonable.
Temperatures tonight are expected to bottom out in the 40s with
around 50 degrees in the Hudson River valley with some 30s into
the western Adirondacks. 

Thursday will feature seasonable temperatures with highs from
the 40s across the western Adirondacks to lower 60s in the mid
Hudson Valley with a return of sunshine across the area as high
pressure build in from the west. Northwesterly winds will be 
bit brisk with gusts up to 25 to 30 mph in cold air advection.

The surface high is expected to strengthen as its moves 
eastward from the Great Lakes Region with its center passing 
over northern NY into New England on Friday. After recent nights
it's going to feeling chilly Thursday night with lows down into
the upper 20s to mid 30s. Highs Friday will be in the 50s with 
40s limited to above 2000 feet and winds will very light.

&&

.LONG TERM /FRIDAY NIGHT THROUGH TUESDAY/...
Dry and tranquil weather conditions will persist Friday night into 
Sunday with a strong, sprawling 1030-1040 mb surface high pressure 
system overhead. Forecast models and ensembles continue to 
advertise/depict a storm system emerging out of the South-
Southeastern U.S. and tracking poleward towards our region. This 
storm system will be responsible for bringing widespread rainfall to 
the forecast area. While there still remains some spread amongst 
guidances/ensembles, prime time looks to be Monday-Tuesday. Have 30-
40% PoPs spreading from southwest to northeast Sunday night into 
Monday over the forecast area. PoPs increase to high end chance to 
categorical Monday afternoon/evening before decreasing to 30-40% 
chances on Tuesday. The bulk of the rain should come to an end 
Tuesday night, however, there could still be some lingering showers 
over at least parts of the area on Wednesday should the occluding, 
double-barreled low slow/stall near or just off the coast. There 
remains some uncertainty with how this evolves so will have to keep 
tabs on trends in the days ahead. Wednesday night into Thursday, 
drier weather for sure should take place with another area of high 
pressure expected to build into the region.

As far as temperatures, anomalies are expected to average out 
mild/above normal for the balance of this period. High temperatures 
on Saturday will be near normal levels with values in the upper 50s 
to near 60F along the river valleys (low to mid 50s higher 
elevations). Slightly milder on Sunday and Monday with highs in the 
lower 60s along the river valleys (mid to upper 50s higher 
elevations). By Tuesday and Wednesday, high temperatures could climb 
into the mid 60s along the river valleys (upper 50s to lower 60s 
higher elevations). Overnight low temperatures will start off cold 
Friday night and Saturday night amid strong radiational cooling 
potential with values in the low to mid 30s along the river valleys 
(mid to upper 20s higher elevations) before moderating into the 40s 
and 50s Sunday night through Wednesday night. Frost is possible 
Friday night and Saturday night.

Looking further ahead in the 8-14 day outlook (November 2-8 time 
line), NOAA Climate Prediction Center (CPC) continues to favor an 
above normal temperature pattern for eastern New York and western 
New England.

&&

.AVIATION /18Z WEDNESDAY THROUGH MONDAY/...
Through 12z Thursday....Cigs and/or vsbys are ranging from MVFR to 
IFR at the terminals as of this update due to mist/fog and/or low 
stratus clouds. Expect for MVFR to IFR conditions to persist through 
the morning hours and for that matter through a good chunk of the 
TAF cycle, though things should improve to more VFR/MVFR towards the 
end of the TAF cycle. As additional moisture associated with a weak 
coastal low and inverted trough streams northward into the area, 
showers could develop later this afternoon over parts of the area. 
Have maintained TEMPOs for patchy drizzle, mist/fog, and low stratus 
for the morning hours and VCSH/Prob30 headlines for the terminals 
during the afternoon/evening hours to reflect the potential for 
additional showers over the area. Tonight into Thursday, any showers 
over the are should have come to an end. However, MVFR cigs could 
persist.

Winds will be light and variable to calm this morning before a 
southerly component develops this afternoon at about 5-10 kts. 
Tonight into Thursday, winds are expected to have shifted out of the 
west at 5-10 kts.

Outlook...

Thursday-Sunday: No Operational Impact. NO SIG WX.

&&

.ALY WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
CT...None.
NY...None.
MA...None.
VT...None.

&&

$$
SYNOPSIS...IAA
NEAR TERM...NAS
SHORT TERM...IAA
LONG TERM...Evbuoma
AVIATION...Gant
