614 
FXUS64 KMEG 260031
AFDMEG

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Memphis TN
731 PM CDT Tue Oct 25 2022

...New UPDATE...

.UPDATE...
Issued at 718 PM CDT Tue Oct 25 2022

Rain has ended across the Mid South and the Wind Advisory has been
allowed to expire. Expect some lingering clouds overnight, but a
beautiful day for your Wednesday with highs in the 60s. We should
remain dry for the next few days before the next chance of rain
arrives on Saturday. No major changes made to the forecast this
evening.

&&

.DISCUSSION...
(This evening through next Monday)
Issued at 315 PM CDT Tue Oct 25 2022

Low end severe thunderstorm threat has ended over the Midsouth.

GOES water vapor imagery showed a compact closed upper low over 
southeast MO, moving northeast at 3 PM. Storms had moved east of 
the TN River and northeast MS, along an slowly-advancing pre-
frontal surface pressure trof. Gusty winds will remain possible 
under the strongly subsident midlevel dry slot through late 
afternoon. Will let the Wind Advisory continue, but gust criteria 
of 39 mph may not be met after 4 to 5 PM.

Relatively tranquil weather will prevail across the Midsouth 
through Friday. Zonal flow will back to the southwest through this
period, in advance of another closed southern branch upper low. 
Relative to today's upper low passage, medium range models depict 
saturday's upper low to be geographically larger, not as deep, and
likely to take a more southerly track. With the main surface low 
tracking east along the gulf coast, we will remain on the cool 
side of this system until it lifts north into the lower Ohio River
valley Sunday afternoon. A slight chance of thunder has been 
added for this period to account for the expected modest convective
instability.

PWB

&&

.AVIATION...
(00Z TAFS)
Issued at 639 PM CDT Tue Oct 25 2022

MVFR CIGS and wind gusts up to 25kts are expected to persist over
the next few hours before VFR conditions and slower winds return 
areawide after 26/06Z. By tomorrow afternoon, expect winds to be
out of the north at 08-10kts. 

ANS 

&&

.MEG WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
AR...None.
MO...None.
MS...None.
TN...None.
&&

$$

PUBLIC FORECAST...MJH
AVIATION...ANS
