822 
FXUS64 KMEG 262300
AFDMEG

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Memphis TN
600 PM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

...New AVIATION...

.DISCUSSION...
(This evening through next Tuesday)
Issued at 216 PM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

Currently...Low clouds have finally exited West TN as surface 
high pressure builds into the MS and OH River Valleys. It has been
a cool day as low level CAA and some clouds have kept temps in 50s
east to mid 60s west. A brisk north wind has made in feel a bit
more chilly. 

Clear and cool conditions are expected tonight with diminishing 
wind and lows in the upper 30s in the cool spots to lower 40s
elsewhere.

Thursday and Friday...Surface high pressure will slowly track
toward the northeast US with light easterly flow and dry
conditions across the Mid-South during this time period. Highs 
will be in the 60s Thursday and a few degrees warmer on Friday as 
upper ridging build over the area in advance of the approaching 
upper low that will be digging into the Arklatex. Middle and 
higher clouds will be on the increase Friday afternoon. 

Friday night through Sunday...An deep upper low will track into 
the Arklatex Friday night. This system will occlude west of the
Mid-South which will cut off the instability and limit the severe
weather threat. A few thunderstorms are possible on Saturday as 
the upper low and associated cold core aloft move through. As the 
system tracks NE it will be quickly filling and weakening. Right 
now rainfall amounts around one inch seem reasonable for this 
event. The main area of heavier precipitation will lift NE/E of 
the region by Sunday morning. Lingering clouds and showers are 
possible during Sunday as toughing at the surface and aloft 
linger. Highs will be in the 60s this weekend with lows in the 
50s. 

Monday through Wednesday...Clouds and cool conditions will 
linger into Monday as upper/surface trough are slow to pull out. 
Surface high pressure will strengthen over the region Tuesday and 
Wednesday with plenty of sunshine and moderating temps with lower 
to mid 70s by Wednesday. 

Toward the end of next week the ensembles are showing positive 5
day height anomalies across the eastern US. Looks like above
normal temps for the end of next week into the weekend. 

&&

.AVIATION...
(00Z TAFS)
Issued at 557 PM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

VFR conditions are expected throughout the TAF period, with winds
slowing to about 4kts overnight. Tomorrow, winds will begin to
turn more easterly and gain speed to 8-10kts.

ANS

&&

.MEG WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
AR...None.
MO...None.
MS...None.
TN...None.
&&

$$

PUBLIC FORECAST...SJM
AVIATION...ANS
