224 
FXUS64 KMEG 261128
AFDMEG

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Memphis TN
628 AM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

...New AVIATION...

.DISCUSSION...
(Today through Tuesday)
Issued at 311 AM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

The shortwave trough that brought rainfall to the Mid-South on 
Tuesday is lifting northeast across the OH Valley early this
morning with an expansive area of dry air over the Lower MS 
Valley. Quasi-zonal flow aloft is observed in the wake of this 
trough across the central and southwest CONUS but another trough 
is digging across the Pacific Northwest. A surface low is located
over IN with an attendant cold front extending south through East
TN into GA. 

Sky conditions across the Mid-South will continue to clear over
the next few hours with cooler and drier air settling over the 
region for a few days. Temperatures will remain below normal 
through Thursday with highs in the 60s and lows mainly in the 40s.
A few areas could dip into the upper 30s tonight across West TN. 
The flow aloft will back more southwesterly on Thursday as the 
PacNW trough digs into the Four Corners region. This may result in
an uptick in cloud cover, but dry conditions will persist into
Friday.

Guidance is in pretty good agreement that this trough will be 
located over West TX by 12z Friday. This continues a slowing trend 
which is not surprising with deep, cut-off upper lows. Low-level 
winds will still be from the east at this time with a surface low 
developing over the upper TX coast. This will limit moisture 
return through Friday and will preclude rain chances across most 
of the Mid-South during the daytime period. The global ensembles 
are in good agreement with very low probabilities for measurable 
rainfall through 00z Saturday. As this trough inches closer this 
weekend, rain chances will increase, peaking Saturday afternoon 
and overnight as the trough swings across the Mid-South.

This cyclone will become vertically stacked as it approaches the
Mid-South and is expected to rapidly fill. Point soundings
indicate a lot of dry air below 850 mb with moistening occurring
from the top-down via evaporation. Instability will remain poor 
initially, but is expected to increase on Saturday as the cooler 
temperatures aloft associated with the upper low move across the 
area. Thunder will be capped at 20% for now with rain chances 
likely (60-70%). The slower guidance will push PoPs well into 
Sunday, perhaps lingering into Sunday night as wrap-around
moisture hangs around the Mid-South. Dry weather is expected 
early next week with slightly below normal temperatures.

MJ

&&

.AVIATION...
(12Z TAFS)
Issued at 624 AM CDT Wed Oct 26 2022

MVFR conditions remain at MKL and should for a few more hours then
clouds should move out of the area. Then all sites should be VFR 
for the TAF period. Wind NNW 5-10kts and should veer NNE and 
should be 5kts or less overnight. 

SMW

&&

.MEG WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
AR...None.
MO...None.
MS...None.
TN...None.
&&

$$

PUBLIC FORECAST...MJ
AVIATION...SMW
